SSE-CAS Training Course for Linking Sci-tech Enterprises and Capital Market Rounded Off in Shanghai
05 May 2017
  On April 27, 2017, the SSE-CAS Workshop for linking Sci-tech Enterprises and the Capital Market, co-sponsored by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and Chinese Academy of Sciences Holdings Co., Ltd. (CAS Holdings), was held at the SSE trading floor. Attending the activity and delivering speeches were Wu Qing, SSE Chairman, Zhang Dongke, SSE Vice Chairman, and Suo Jishuan, General Manager of CAS Holdings. Other attendants included nearly 100 senior managers from 54 hi-tech enterprises with shares held by the CAS or research institutions affiliated to it. On March 8, 2017, the CAS and the SSE signed the “Agreement on CAS-SSE Strategic Cooperation”, with an aim to provide all-round support in the capital market for the fast growth of hi-tech enterprises in the CAS system. The training course held this time was a specific move to implement the requirement in the Agreement that “the two sides should build the mechanism for information sharing and collaboration, strengthen training cooperation and co-propel sci-tech finance innovation”. Wu said at the training course that the SSE attached high importance to the training and cooperation with the CAS. Currently, it is generally recognized in the market that the SSE is a quality blue-chip market. However, the SSE is also a multi-layer and hi-quality capital market supporting sci-tech enterprises’ growth, with small companies and large ones co-existing in the SSE market. Wu hoped that all the entrepreneurs present at the training course would actively give advice and discuss with the SSE on how to use the multi-layer market to support the growth of the CAS system, an influential leader in innovative development nationwide. Wu added that the SSE and the CAS would make full use of their edges, cooperate in innovation and contribute to propelling the national economy’s transformation and upgrading as well as the nation’s revitalization. In his speech for the training course, Zhang introduced the practices of the SSE in recent years in terms of reform and development as well as supporting the growth of new-economy and hi-tech enterprises. He said that as of April 27, a total of 1,264 companies listed on the SSE included a lot of national economy pillar enterprises and industry leading enterprises, and more and more new-economy and hi-tech enterprises went public on the SSE. He added that as a main board in China’s multi-layer capital market, the SSE had been consistently taken serving the national economy and supporting the real economy as its duty. In particular, the SSE has highly stressed on supporting and fostering new-economy and hi-tech enterprises in recent years. With regard to equity financing, from 2014 to 2016, a total of 81 new-economy enterprises were listed on the SSE, accounting for 1/3 of the newly-listed companies on the SSE in the same period. As for creditor's rights financing, the SSE launched in 2016 the bond of innovation and start-up companies, an innovative product to meet these companies’ need of bond financing and solve the problem of difficult and high cost financing encountered by small and medium-sized enterprises. Zhang said that the CAS is a sacred temple for natural scientific research in China. The sci-tech enterprises in the CAS system are the new force and vanguard in the development of new economies and high technologies in China. Some of these enterprises have presented many technological achievements with global influence, while some of theses achievements have already had the capacity for commercialized production. CAS enterprises will take the leading role during the critical period of national economic transformation and upgrading. The SSE has the obligation to serve the overall situation of reform and opening-up of China by installing the wing of capital to facilitate the growth of CAS enterprises. Suo introduced the history, main businesses and operation of affiliated enterprises of CAS Holdings. According to Suo, the company has a batch of famous hi-tech enterprises involving industries such as the new generation of information technology, high-end equipment manufacturing, environmental protection and new materials, investment and modern services, and health care. Suo added that, in response to the General Secretary Xi Jinping's requirement of "taking lead in the leaping development of science and technology, the establishment of high-land for China's innovation talents, the establishment of China's high-level think tank for science and technology and the construction of top international scientific research institutions", the CAS formulated and implemented the "Plan of 'Taking Leading Actions'". As one of the key parts of the plan, CAS Holdings formulated and implemented the "Outlines of 'Innovation through Cooperation'" (the "Outlines" for short), which suggested the construction of "Canal System" from IP (sea of knowledge) to IPO (sea of capital), in order to facilitate the in-depth integration of technology and economy, realize leaping development of emerging industries, and promote the economic transformation and industrial structure upgrading in China with the strength of scientific research of the CAS as well as cooperation among the innovation chain, industry chain and capital chain. In addition to the in-depth implementation of relevant contents in the Agreement signed by the CAS and the SSE, the training also reflects the intrinsic requirements of the Outlines. It was hoped that the training would further promote orderly process of the strategic cooperation on both sides, help tech-innovation enterprises to facilitate reform and development with the aid of the capital market, as well as propel industry technology upgrading and financial-service technology innovation, in a bid to contribute to building China into a state with technological strengths in the world. At the training course, relevant department heads of the SSE gave lessons to the attendants on contents such as the multi-layer blue-chip market of the SSE, corporate-bonds financing instruments, corporate governance and its latest development. Besides, senior experts from famous international accounting firms explained the overall planning and business on equity incentive for enterprises planning to go public. Through the one-day training course, the attendants had an in-depth understanding of and familiarity with relevant policies and rules of the capital market, as well as acquainted with the financing schemes related to restructuring and listing, merger and reorganization as well as issuance of corporate bonds. After the training course, the guests participated in the group discussions with relevant heads of the SSE on issues such as IPO and bond financing concerned by enterprises. As both sides further strengthened exchanges and understandings, the training course realized its expected purposes.

“SSE Guidance for Business Management on Structured Funds” to Take Effect on May 1, 2017
25 Apr 2017
To standardize investor suitailbty management of structured funds and effectively safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of investors, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), released the “SSE Guidance for Business Management on Structured Funds” on November 25, 2016, which will officially come into effect on May 1, 2017. By summing up the experience in management and operation of the structured funds in recent years, the Guidance further improves the investor suitailbty management system and standardizes the conversion of units of structured funds as well as investor education and risk warning. It will serve as an important institutional arrangement for implementing the requirements for practicing regulation strictly and comprehensively according to law, attaching more importance to prevention of all market risks and effectively pushing forward the stable and healthy development of the fund market. Any individual investor or ordinary institutional investor applying for the permit of the business of structured funds shall satisfy the following conditions: “In the 20 trading days before applying for the permit, the average daily securities assets under its name shall not be less than RMB300,000”; “Signing a ‘Risk Disclosure Letter on Investment in Structured Funds’ in written form at the securities business department”. After implementation of the Guidance on May 1, 2017, investors without the permit for the business of structured funds will not be allowed to buy sub-units of the structured funds or dividing basic units of the structured funds. Investors should pay attention to the changes on the permit for participating in the business of structured funds after implementation of the Guidance, and make proper arrangement for relevant transactions to avoid the risks resulting from the changes. Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Revision of Some Articles Related to Bond Trading in “SSE Trading Rules” and “SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Bond Trading”
14 Apr 2017
All market participants, Approved by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has revised some articles related to the collateralized repo of bonds in the “SSE Trading Rules” (the “Trading Rules” for short) and the “SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Bond Trading” (the “Detailed Rules” for short), and the specific amendments are as follows: 1. Amendments to related articles in the “Trading Rules” The method of calculating the closing price of collateralized repo has been modified. Article 4.1.3 is amended to: "Except as otherwise provided in these rules, the closing price of the securities shall be the volume weighted average price of all transactions in one minute before the last transaction of the securities (including the last transaction) on the very day. It there is no transaction on the very day, the closing price shall be the previous one. The closing price of collateralized repo of bonds is the volume weighted average price of all transactions in one hour before the last transaction of the securities (including the last transaction) on the very day. If there is no transaction on the very day, the closing price shall be the previous one.” 2. Amendments to related articles in the “Detailed Rules” (1) Addition of articles on the methods of calculating the opening price and the closing price of the collateralized repo One article is added as Article 16: “The opening price of the collateralized repo of bonds is the price generated in the call auction for the repo product; if the call auction fails to result in an opening price, the price of the first transaction in the continuous auction shall be the opening price. The closing price of bonds repo is the volume weighted average price of all transactions in one hour before the last transaction of the securities (including the last transaction) on the very day. If there is no transaction on the very day, the closing price shall be the previous one.” (2) Revision of calculation formula of repurchase price of bonds repo The original Article 18 is modified as: “On the maturity date of repo, the securities depository and clearing institution shall calculate the quantities of funds and collateralized bonds that shall be delivered on the basis of the repurchase price formula. The formula of repurchase price is: repurchase price = RMB100 + annual rate of return × RMB100 × actual number of days for the outstanding funds / 365. The actual number of days for the outstanding funds in the second paragraph in the article refers to the actual number of calendar days from the first settlement day (included) to the settlement day (excluded) of maturity in the repo transaction.” These amendments shall come into effect starting on May 22, 2017. The repurchase prices at maturity for the repo transactions reached before May 22, 2017 shall still be calculated on the basis of the original formula.   Shanghai Stock Exchange April 14, 2017

Q&A on Revision to Some Articles on Collateralized Repo of Bonds
14 Apr 2017
Q: Today, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) announced the revisions to the “SSE Trading Rules” and the “SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Bond Trading”. What are the amendments and the main concerns? A: In order to improve the management of the exchange-traded bond repo business, with the approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the SSE has made amendments to the “SSE Trading Rules” and the “SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Bond Trading”, and the new rules will come into force on May 22, 2017. The adjustments to the new rules mainly involve two aspects: the first is revising the interest-bearing rule for the collateralized repo, as the number of the interest-bearing days is changed from the nominal days of the repo term to the actual days of the outstanding funds, so as to eliminate the drastic volatility of the repo rates caused by the factor of holidays and weekends under the rule of the number of nominal interest-bearing days, and at the same time the number of interest-bearing days in a year is shifted from 360 days to 365 days; the second is modifying the calculation method of the closing price for collateralized repo, as it is altered from the volume weighted average price of all transactions in one minute before the last transaction on the very day to that in one hour, in a bid to improve the stability of the closing prices of repos. In recent years, with the trading volume of exchange-traded bond collateralized repos continuously increasing, the exchange-traded repo market has seen the group of participants expanding constantly. To better serve the market participants, the SSE has worked with China Securities Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd. in improving the management of the repo business, and the new rules have optimized the interest-bearing rule for repo and the calculation method of the closing price. The implementation of the new rules will strengthen the stability of the repo rates on the exchange-traded market and help investors better participate in the exchange-traded repo market. Next, the SSE will further improve the structure of investors of the collateralized repos, enhance the repo product line and promote the healthy and steady development of the repo market.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Issues, Implements “Guidelines for Credit Risk Management on Corporate Bonds in Duration (for Trial Implementation)”
17 Mar 2017
In order to strengthen the credit risk management on the corporate bonds in duration and effectively protect legitimate rights and interests of investors, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently issued and implemented the “SSE Guidelines for Credit Risk Management on Corporate Bonds in Duration (for Trial Implementation)” (the Guidelines for short) on the basis of extensively soliciting and fully absorbing the opinions from market participants. The Guidelines mainly involves the contents in four aspects: the first is to fully implement the responsibility of market participants for risk management and give full play to the central role of bond issuers and trustees; the second is to prevent and defuse prior and in-process credit risks, as all the parties concerned are required to take the initiative to carry out the credit risk management, continuously conduct monitoring, screening and early warning for credit risks and timely detect and defuse risks as early as possible; the third is to highlight the risk-oriented classification management by dividing bonds into the normal class, the attention class, the risk class and the default class and making differentiated arrangements for risk management on bonds in different risk classes; the fourth is to set up the reporting system for credit risk management of bonds by requiring trustees to submit periodical reports to the SSE every half a year and interim reports on high-risk bonds on an irregular basis so that regulators could master the risk situations in the market in a timely manner. According to an SSE official, the SSE openly solicited opinions on the Guidelines on January 25, 2017. With the market participants attaching great importance, the SSE received feedbacks and opinions from bond issuers, trustees, investors and other parties concerned. The feedbacks and opinions generally recognize the positive role of the Guidelines in intensifying the credit risk management in the bond market and strengthening the protection of the legitimate rights and interests of investors, and the opinions on modification were put forward mainly in improving the monitoring over the bond risks, the standard for classification and other aspects. The SSE has earnestly studied the opinions one by one and made relevant revisions and improvements for the Guidelines, such as further improving the standard for risk classification, allowing trustees to conduct risk monitoring and classification on the basis of actual situations such as the business model and the industry characteristics of bond issuers, and more accurately defining the responsibilities taken by underwriters. In terms of the suggestions for the non-institutional and specific operations, the SSE plans to make responses and explanations in publicity, training and other ways after the issuance of the Guidelines. As an important self-regulatory rule for the SSE bond market, after issuance and implementation the Guidelines will boost the implementation of the entity responsibility of market participants for the bond credit risk management, improve the market participants’ awareness of actively managing bond credit risks, set up the persistent and regular mechanism and system of bond credit risk management, move the focus on bond credit risk control forward, enhance the mechanism of defusing and disposing default risks based on the market and laws, step up the credit risk management of bonds in duration, and lay a solid foundation for building a high-level bond market. After the issuance of the Guidelines, all market participants shall, firstly, attach great importance to and make effective efforts in the implementation of the Guidelines, earnestly organize the analysis of the rules in the Guidelines, accurately understand the requirements of the Guidelines and enhance the awareness and capability of bond credit risk management. Secondly, market participants shall systematically sort out the responsibilities of all parties concerned stipulated in the Guidelines, divide and designate the relevant tasks to specific departments and personnel, improve the internal system and process, adjust and rationalize the corresponding organizational structure and operational mechanism, fully make business and technical preparations for the implementation of the Guidelines, and be diligent and responsible in their duties. Thirdly, market participants should effectively carry out the bond credit risk management in strict accordance with the requirements of the Guidelines, and strengthen the efforts in monitoring and classification, screening and early warning as well as defusing and disposing for the credit risks in all bonds in duration especially the bonds matured in 2017, submit the first semi-annual report and related interim reports on bond credit risk management according to the requirements, and fulfill the relevant obligations for information disclosure and repayment of principal and interest. To help market participants, especially bond issuers and trustees, better understand and implement the Guidelines, in the near future the SSE will hold forums for related persons in charge of the trustees, organize the training for the risk management business, step up publicity and organization, and guide all market participants in effectively implementing the relevant requirements of the Guidelines. Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Phase 1 UC RUSAL Panda Bonds Smoothly Issued
17 Mar 2017
On March 16, 2017, United Company RUSAL Plc (UC RUSAL) successfully completed the issuance of the 2017 phase 1 corporate bonds, marking the smooth realization of the first sum of Panda Bonds, which are issued in China by an enterprise based in a country along the “One Belt and One Road”. As the second largest producer of primary aluminum and aluminum alloys in the world, UC RUSAL is the first enterprise based in a country along the “One Belt and One Road” that has issued Panda Bonds in China. With China International Capital Corporation Ltd. (CICC) as the underwriter, the bond has a term of 3 years (with the redemption option for investor attached at the end of the second year) with the facility rating at AAA, the issuance size at RMB1 billion and the coupon rate at 5.5%. The issuance was crowned with success. The successful issuance of Panda Bonds marks a valuable attempt made by an enterprise based in a country along the “One Belt and One Road” in financing on the capital market in China, having expanded the financing channels for similar enterprises. Next, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will, in accordance with the deployment of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), further deepen the opening-up of the exchanged-traded bond market and better support the construction of the “One Belt and One Road”.

CAS, SSE Ink Strategic Cooperation Agreement
13 Mar 2017
Recently, the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) and the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) signed the Strategic Cooperation Agreement between CAS and SSE at Chinese Academy of Sciences Holdings Co., Ltd. (CAS Holdings). The strategic cooperation is a specific move to implement the national strategy of innovation-driven development and the effective integration of the scientific and technological industry policies and the capital market. Attending the signing ceremony were Wu Qing, SSE Party Chief and Chairman, Zhang Dongke, Vice Chairman of the SSE, Deng Maicun, Party Group Member and Secretary General of the CAS, and Wu Lebin, Chairman of CAS Holdings. According to the agreement, the two sides will, based on the principle of "complementary advantages and win-win cooperation", adhere to the orientation toward the market and laws, promote the effective integration of the scientific and technological industry policies and the capital market, and strengthen the exchange and sharing of information. Both sides will jointly support the enterprises in the CAS system in developing more channels for direct financing, reduce financing costs for the enterprises and create sound development environment for the enterprises with the aim of building China into a scientific and technological power. The two sides will carry out all-round, in-depth and long-term cooperation in supporting the major enterprises’ capital operations such as restructuring and listing, merging and reorganization and issuance of corporate bonds, and the technological innovation in finance, and establish a stable cooperation mechanism. The major enterprises mentioned above include the technological innovation-oriented enterprises playing an industrial demonstrating and leading role and featuring high growth in the CAS system. Deng said at the signing ceremony that in recent years the CAS has attached great importance to the development in the capital market, vigorously cultivated the potential resources for listing, steadily expanded the enterprises’ listing and financing on the stock market, and energetically guided qualified enterprises in issuing all kinds of corporate bonds. As an important organizer on China’s securities market, the SSE has incomparable specialized advantages in the capital market operation. The cooperation is conducive to integrating the CAS’s advantages in innovative resources and personnel resources with the SSE’s comprehensive superiority in technology, personnel, regulation, information and other areas on the capital market, so as to jointly advance the development of strategic emerging industries. Wu said in his speech that the SSE and the CAS have long kept in close contact and maintained good cooperation and exchanges, and in the critical period for deepening the implementation of the innovation-driven development strategy, it is of great importance for the SSE and the CAS to sign the strategic agreement. The SSE will carry out effective cooperation with the CAS, shoulder its own responsibility for serving the general situation of China’s reform and development, and make more targeted and pragmatic efforts in supporting the supply-side structural reform, boosting the transformation and upgrading of the real economy and other fields. The CAS is China's highest academic institution for natural sciences, highest advisory body for science and technology and comprehensive research and development center for natural sciences and high technologies. At present the CAS holds shares in more than 50 enterprises and regulates more than 660 enterprises, including 25 enterprises listed at home and abroad and 15 enterprises listed on National Equities Exchange and Quotations (NEEQ). The enterprises under the CAS are mainly engaged in strategic emerging industries such as the new generation of information technology, high-end equipment manufacturing, environmental protection and new materials, and investment and modern services. All the enterprises under the CAS have a total asset of RMB482.3 billion and a net asset of RMB125.6 billion, with the sales revenue at about RMB385 billion in 2016; the enterprises have invested a total of more than RMB110 billion in funds, and formed the distinct “CAS Sector” on the capital market. CAS Holdings exercises the rights of investor on behalf of the CAS for the commercial state-owned assets of the wholly-owned, controlling and stake-taking enterprises directly invested by the CAS, and takes the corresponding responsibilities for preserving and increasing value. As an important infrastructure of China’s capital market and a main board and blue chip stock market, the SSE has formed a system covering stocks, derivatives, bonds, funds and other products and developed into a comprehensive exchange integrating the futures and spot markets. At present, the SSE is the most important comprehensive exchange with the highest openness in China’s mainland, as well as one of the emerging securities markets in the center of focus worldwide. Currently, the SSE is making efforts in building itself into a world-class exchange strongly supporting China’s reform and development and effectively allocating resources at home and abroad.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Q&A on Three PPP Project Asset Securitization Products Approved by SSE
10 Mar 2017
Today, three asset securitization products for public-private partnership (PPP) projects in the traditional infrastructure field are approved by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE). An official of the SSE answered relevant questions raised by journalists Q: It is learnt that today, the 3 asset securitization products for PPP projects get a no-objection letter for listing and transfer from the SSE. Could you introduce more about the three products, the first batch of this kind after the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) and the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) released a relevant notice? A: In order to implement the “Opinions of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council on Propelling the Investment and Financing System Reform” (Zhong Fa [2016] No. 18 Document) and other documents, facilitate the supply-side structural reform and enhance the ability of the capital market in serving the real economy, the NDRC and the CSRC co-released the “Notice of NDRC and CSRC on Advancing the Work Concerning Asset Securitization for PPP Projects in Traditional Infrastructure Field” (NDRC Investment [2016] No. 2698) in December 2016, and the SSE released the “Notice of Advancing Asset Securitization Business for PPP Projects in Traditional Infrastructure Field” in February 2017. Under the guidance of the NDRC and the CSRC, the SSE recently handled the applications for listing and transfer of the following three asset-backed securities products: Charge Usufruct of CITIC Securities - Beijing Capital Sewage Treatment PPP Project, Heat-supply Charge Usufruct of CFLD Gu’an Industrial Zone’s New Urbanization PPP Project, and China Securities - INSIGMA Construction Investment Qingchun Road Tunnel PPP Project. As these three products comply with the SSE’s conditions for listing and transfer, the SSE approved them and issued the no-objection letter this week. It marks that the asset securitization products for PPP projects in the traditional infrastructure field promoted by the NDRC and the CSRC officially came into being. The three PPP projects in the traditional infrastructure field are among the first batch of securitization projects recommended by the NDRC, with the details as follows: The asset-backed special plan for the Charge Usufruct of CITIC Securities - Beijing Capital Sewage Treatment PPP Project, with four wholly-owned water affairs subsidies under Beijing Capital as the originators and the charge usufruct of sewage treatment held by the four subsidies under the sewage treatment PPP project as the underlying asset, boasts a total size of RMB530 million, with the size at the preferred level (rated AAA) up to RMB500 million. The asset-backed special plan for the Heat-supply Charge Usufruct of CFLD Gu’an Industrial Zone’s New Urbanization PPP Project, with the heat-supply charge usufruct of Jiutong Public Utility, a wholly-owned subsidy of CFLD, in Gu’an Industrial Zone in the next six years as the underlying asset, boasts a total size of RMB706 million, with the size at the preferred level (rated AAA) up to RMB670 million. The asset-backed special plan for China Securities - INSIGMA Construction Investment Qingchun Road Tunnel PPP Project, with the contract creditor’s right of Hangzhou’s Qingchun Road Tunnel’s franchise owned by a subsidiary of INSIGMA Group as the underlying asset, boasts a total size of RMB1.158 billion, with the size at the preferred level (rated AAA) up to RMB1.1 billion. Generally speaking, the three projects, respectively in the public utility field of sewage treatment and heat-supply charging and in the infrastructure construction field, are all PPP projects in the traditional infrastructure field. The PPP mode plays a positive role in improving China’s infrastructure, while asset securitization, one of the major financing ways in the infrastructure field, boasts its product features highly compatible with those of PPP projects of stable investment income and long return period. Advancing the PPP project asset securitization contributes to activating stock assets of PPP projects, attracting more social capital into PPP projects’ construction, enhancing the assets liquidity of PPP projects and fueling the supply-side structural reform. According to relevant notice of the SSE, the SSE has set up a green acceptance and review channel for the qualified asset securitization products of the quality PPP projects, and the first batch of PPP project asset securitization products are handled by the specially-assigned persons, so that review will be immediately conducted after submission of the applications. Next, the SSE will earnestly carry out the requirements in the Government Work Report for helping enterprises activate stock assets and boosting asset securitization, consistently fuel innovation in the financing ways of PPP projects, support the PPP project asset securitization business of PPP project enterprises and relevant intermediaries, continuously play the role of the exchange-traded bond market in serving the real economy, and ensure the long-term and sound growth of the PPP project asset securitization Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Advancing Asset Securitization Business for Public-Private Partnership (PPP) Projects in Traditional Infrastructure Fields
17 Feb 2017
All market participants, To implement the requirements of the “Notice of the National Development and Reform Commission and the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) on Advancing the Work Concerning the Asset Securitization for the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) Projects in Traditional Infrastructure Fields” (NDRC Investment [2016] No. 2698) and other documents, push forward the innovation in the financing modes of the PPP projects and improve the capability of serving the real economy, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), in accordance with the “Administrative Provisions on the Asset Securitization Business of Securities Companies and Subsidiaries of Fund Management Companies” and the “SSE Business Guidelines for Asset Securitization”, makes the announcement on the matters concerning the advancement of the asset securitization business for the PPP projects as follows: 1. The SSE encourages and supports the enterprises and relevant intermediaries with PPP projects in vigorously carrying out the asset securitization business for the PPP projects according to law. All parties concerned shall be diligent and dutiful, strictly abide by the professional standards and regulatory requirements, and effectively fulfill the responsibilities such as due diligence, information disclosure, collection of cash flow, income distribution and risk prevention and control, so as to ensure the steady operation of the business, protect the interests of the investors and safeguard the market stability. 2. The SSE has set up the working group for asset securitization of PPP projects, and arranged for special personnel to be responsible for implementation. Besides, it has set up the green channel for the qualified products of asset securitization of the quality PPP projects, in a bid to improve the efficiency in acceptance, review and listing and transfer. At the stage of project application, review will be immediately conducted after the submission of the application, and the feedback opinions will be issued within 5 workdays after the acceptance. The working group meeting will be held within 3 workdays after the manager submits reply of confirmation to the feedback, so as to determine whether the application meets the requirements for listing. At the stage of listing of projects, there will be a specially-assigned person and post in charge to improve the efficiency in dealing with the process of listing. 3. According to the unified arrangement, the SSE has set up the communication and linkage mechanism with the CSRC, the NDRC, the Asset Management Association of China, the Securities Association of China and other exchanges, so as to vigorously push the qualified projects to realize the market-based financing by means of asset securitization and provide cooperation and support for the PPP projects to link up with the capital market. The contact persons of the SSE working group for asset securitization of PPP projects: He Ruixiao, Tel: 021-50186162; Xu Chengzhi, Tel: 021-50185671; Hu Shuangli, Tel: 021-50185107. Email for Asset Securitization Business: sseabs@sse.com.cn. Shanghai Stock Exchange February 17, 2017

SSE Studies, Implements Requirements of 2017 National Securities and Futures Regulation Work Conference
13 Feb 2017
On February 13, the Party Committee of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held a meeting to timely publicize the requirements put forward at the 2017 National Securities and Futures Regulation Work Conference, earnestly study the speech delivered by Chairman Liu Shiyu of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), and deploy the SSE’s major work items in 2017. The SSE Party Committee held that the conference is of great significance for the capital market’s development at a critical period. It systematically summarized all the 2016 work items of the whole securities and futures system for cementing the Party discipline and strictly administrating the CSRC in an all-round way as well as carrying out legal, comprehensive and strict regulation according to the decisions and deployments of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council, deeply analyzed the complicated situation and severe challenges facing the capital market, roundly expounded the major tasks of the securities and futures regulation system in 2017 in implementing the general keynote of moving forward while maintaining stability given by the CPC Central Committee. The speech entitled “consistently strengthening political awareness, awareness of overall situation, awareness of core leadership and awareness of uniformity (four-awarenesses), moving forward while maintaining stability, and rationally fueling the capital market’s reform, stability and development” made by CSRC Chairman Liu Shiyu, with great foresight, a clear standpoint and rich content, boasts strong pertinence and guidance. In particular, the 6 aspects for stability and another 6 aspects for progress for the capital market’s reform, development and stability are highly instructive for working out a unified thought and correctly understanding and rationally propelling the major tasks of the capital market’s reform, development and stability under the complicated domestic and foreign economic environment and the ever-changing capital market. The conference fully showed the confidence and resolution of the CSRC Party Committee in comprehensively implementing the requirements put forward at the 6th Plenary Sessions of the 18th CPC Central Committee and the Central Economic Work Conference, further studying the major speeches made by General Secretary Xi Jinping, consistently enhancing the four-awarenesses, adhering to the philosophy of carrying out legal and strict regulation in an all-round way and the reform direction of marketization, rule of law and internationalization, and firmly maintaining the long-term, sound and steady growth of the capital market. It was specified at the conference that we should further cement the Party discipline, strictly administrate the CSRC in an all-round way, attach more importance to risk control, further the strict regulation in an all-round way according to law, focus on the supply-side structural reform for improving the ability of serving the real economy, steadily propel the construction of the multi-layer capital market, cement the market infrastructure and the regulatory guarantee ability, boost the construction of the capital market’s legal and credit systems and investor protection, take on a new look in the capital market’s opening-up, propel the self-building in the whole securities and futures system in the securities and futures regulation work in 2017. The conference has given a direction and specified tasks and requirements for SSE in its work in 2017, and encouraged it to further play its role as a frontline regulator and organizer and contribute more to boosting the healthy and steady growth of the capital market and elevating the ability of the capital market in serving the real economy. The SSE Party Committee regards it as an honorable mission in spite of the arduous tasks and heavy responsibilities. The SSE Party Committee said that in 2017, we should, according to the requirements of the CSRC Party Committee, roundly carry out the requirements put forward at the 18th National Congress of the CPC, the 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th Plenary Sessions of the 18th CPC Central Committee, earnestly study the speeches by General Secretary Xi Jinping, carry out the “5-in-1” general layout (economic, political, cultural, social and eco-civilization construction), the strategic layout of “Four Overall Constructions” (building a moderately prosperous society, boosting reform, ruling the country according to law and cementing the Party discipline in an all-round way) and the five development philosophies of “Innovation, Coordination, Green, Openness and Sharing”. Besides, we should vigorously implement the requirements at this conference, hold the general keynote of making progress while maintaining stability, roundly implement the requirement for cementing the Party discipline, and further carry out the philosophy of legal, comprehensive and strict regulation. Moreover, we should, by focusing on the core of giving full play to the exchange’s functions, further strengthen the frontline role of the exchange in the market regulation and risk control, its platform role in serving the supply-side structural reform and its pioneering role in boosting the reform and opening-up of the capital market. Last but not the least, we should stick to the main line for development, fight on the regulation frontline, and hold the bottom line of preventing risks, with a general-situation outlook and a practical attitude, and being proactive. (1) We should further cement the Party discipline and strictly administrate the SSE in an all-round way, elevate the four-awarenesses, especially the awareness of core leadership and the awareness of uniformity, carry out the decisions and deployments made by the CSRC Party Committee, and make the SSE Party Committee to play a politically leading role in the SSE’s governance work. (2) We should strengthen the frontline regulation and risk control in an all-round way, build the 3-in-1 self-regulatory system of regulation on listed companies, trading conducts and SSE members, establish perfect monitoring, analyzing and precautious systems of market risks, vigorously improve the ability and effectiveness of regulation, and maintain the market order. (3) The ability of serving the real economy should be greatly improved. According to the main line of the supply-side structural reform, we should give full play to the platform role of the exchange in resource allocation, and facilitate the campaign of “reducing production capacities, decreasing inventories, deleveraging, lowering costs and improving deficiencies”. Efforts should be made to develop the stock market and the bond market, and elevate the direct financing proportion, in addition to doing a better job in the equity ETF option pilot, developing more products and providing more financial risk management instruments for the market. (4) We should involve ourselves into the national strategic development, take the advantage of China’s “One Belt and One Road” strategy, contribute to building the international financial center of Shanghai and the world-class science and technology center of Shanghai, speed up the internationalization of the exchange, and strive to be a pioneer of the two-way opening-up of the capital market and the going-global strategy. (5) We should strengthen the market infrastructure, optimize the market’s fundamental systems, perfect the market’s fundamental facilities, and make the market system more complete, perfect and mature. (6) We should build a frontline regulation team with sublime ideal, strong ability and high sense of responsibility by strengthening team building and unifying everyone through effective measures. The SSE Party Committee called for that all the cadres and employees of the SSE should firmly carry out the requirements put forward at the conference upon studying, earnestly complete all the SSE’s work items in 2017, so as to usher in the 19th National Congress of the CPC with its outstanding achievements.

2017 National Securities and Futures Regulation Work Conference Held in Beijing
10 Feb 2017
The 2017 National Securities and Futures Regulation Work Conference, held on February 10 at the organ of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), summed up the work of 2016, analyzed the current market situation and deployed the major tasks in 2017. Liu Shiyu, CSRC Party Chief and Chair delivered at the conference a speech entitled “consistently strengthening political awareness, awareness of overall situation, awareness of core leadership and awareness of uniformity (four-awarenesses), moving forward while maintaining stability, and rationally fueling the capital market’s reform, stability and development”. It is pointed out at the conference that in 2016, under the strong leadership of the CPC Central Committee with President Xi Jinping as the core, all the cadres and employees of the securities and futures regulation system steadfastly implemented decisions and deployments made by the CPC Central Committee and the State Council, took advantage of the good and steady progress to overcome all the difficulties, reflected on the lessons resulted from abnormal fluctuations in the stock market, strictly regulated in an all-round way according to law to continuously rationalize market order and protect investors’ legitimate rights and interest, served the supply-side structural reform, maintained the steady and healthy growth of the market in the complicated situation, and contributed to the economic and social development. (1) New changes have taken place in the capital market’s regulatory philosophy, and more importance has been attached to maintaining the capital market’s steady and sound growth. (2) Further progress has been made in systematically building the Party as well as ideological and political aspects. (3) More contributions to serving the real economy have been achieved. In 2016, the total amount related to IPOs and refinancing projects reached RMB1.33 trillion, with a year-on-year growth of 59%. Wining a battle against poverty has been taken as a noble political task, as the policy characterized by “review once being submitted and issuance once being approved” has been applied to the poverty-stricken areas, with one enterprise approved for issuance. (4) The ability of complying with and serving the national macro-control policy has been enhanced. (5) New achievements have been made in the reform and construction of the multi-layer capital market. In terms of boosting the reform of the New Third Board, the number of the companies listed on the Board in 2016 reached more than 10,000. The standardized development of the regional equity market has been actively promoted. (6) Further improvement has been seen in regulatory enforcement. Severe punishment and heavy penalties have been adopted to cement the strict regulation in an all-round way according to law. The total number and amount of penalties in 2016 reached record highs, with the number of the people forbidden to enter the market ascending to new high. (7) New progress has been made in protecting the rights and interest of small and medium sized investors. (8) The development of the securities and futures industry presents a new look. Importance has been attached to strengthening the standardized guidance and propelling the sustainable growth of the securities, futures and fund institutions. (9) The ability of controlling financial risks and maintaining market stability has withstood new tests. We have earnestly learned the lessons from the stock market’s abnormal fluctuations, held our bottom line and took several measures on relevant issues to effectively prevent and resolve market risks. (10) The capital market’s two-way opening-up has stepped into a new stage. (11) The ability of market communication and expectation management has reached a higher level. It is held at the conference that the global economic adjustment has not been completed, and the complicated factors in the international community should not be underestimated. Anti-globalization trend has ascended, and we are facing an unquiet global financial market. Although China’s economy is steady on the whole, we should know that it is still in a special stage featuring a combination of 3 phases (the phases of growth rate change, structural adjustment and previous incentive policies’ digestion), and a lot of difficulties and challenges are facing us. The acute issues affecting China’s economic operation are resulted from major structural imbalance, which is mainly showed in 3 major imbalances, namely, imbalances between supply and demand, finance and real economy, and real estate and real economy. The same issues also exist in the financial sector. After 20 years’ development of China’s capital market, we have made outstanding achievements attracting worldwide attention, but the market is not mature yet and we should not underestimate the fragility and complexity of the market. In 2017, the internal and external environments for the capital market will tend to be more complicated. We should thoroughly understand the major judgments on the economic situation, the major decisions on the economic work and the major adjustments to the thoughts and methods for the economic work made by the CPC Central Committee since the 18th CPC National Congress, implement the requirements made at the Central Economic Work Conference, firmly stick to the keynote of making progress while maintaining stability, rationally boost all the work items related to the capital market’s reform, stability and development as well as the regulatory work with reform as the guidance, stability as the bottom line and development as the theme. A total of 6 aspects should be highlighted for stability. (1) The reform direction of marketization, rule of law and internationalization should not be changed, which is the top stability. (2) We should be pragmatic by adhering to the effective regulatory policies and measures which have withstood tests in the market. (3) The stable operation of the capital market is a foundation for reform and development measures. (4) We should continuously crack down on all kinds of violations in the capital market, and inspection and enforcement measures should be further strengthened. (5) We should have quick response, correct judgment and fast action on all kinds of issues and phenomena in the market. (6) We should have full schemes, clear responsibilities and decisive actions for risks. Another 6 aspects should be emphasized on progress. (1) Four-awarenesses should be cemented. (2) The ability of serving the real economy and the national strategies should be enhanced. (3) Efforts should be made to propel the systematical reform of the multi-layer capital market and strengthen the market’s fundamental functions. (4) We should dare to purify the eco-environment of the capital market. (5) The ability to serving the securities and futures industry and the international competence should be improved. (6) New measures should be worked out for opening-up, and more achievements should be strived for in the legal system construction. It is also stressed at the conference that the general requirement for the 2017 securities and futures regulation work is given as follows: we should comprehensively implement the requirements put forward at the 18th National Congress of the CPC, the 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th Plenary Sessions of the 18th CPC Central Committee, earnestly study the speeches and the new philosophies and thoughts on managing state affairs by General Secretary Xi Jinping, continuously strengthen four-awarenesses, especially the awareness of core leadership and the awareness of uniformity, attach importance to the “5-in-1” general layout (economic, political, cultural, social and eco-civilization construction) and the strategic layout of “Four Overall Constructions” (building a moderately prosperous society, boosting reform, ruling the country according to law and cementing the Party discipline in an all-round way), and stick to the keynote of making progress while maintaining stability. Besides, we should firmly erect and carry out new development concepts, stay true to our mission, adhere to strict regulation in an all-round way to protect investors’ legitimate rights and interest, and vigorously improve the regulatory ability. Furthermore, we should attach more importance to controlling financial risks, hold the bottom line of no systematical risk, drive and serve the supply-side structural reform, further boost opening-up, facilitate the ability of the capital market in serving the real economy and the social development, and prepare for the 19th National Congress of the CPC with remarkable achievements. (1) Efforts should be made to cement the Party discipline, strictly administrate the CSRC in an all-round way and adhere to the political direction of the capital market’s growth. (2) More importance should be attached to risk control, with the bottom line of no systematical risk held. (3) We should further the strict regulation in an all-round way according to law, maintain the market order, and continuously elevate the regulatory ability. (4) The main line of supply-side structural reform should be focused to improve the ability of serving the real economy. (5) The systematical construction of the multi-layer capital market should be steadily propelled. (6) The market infrastructure and the regulatory guarantee ability should be further built. (7) We should actively boost the construction of the capital market’s legal and credit systems and investor protection. (8) The capital market’s opening-up should have a new look. (9) Self-building should be propelled in the whole securities and futures system. The conference lasted one and half a day. Among those attending on the spot or through video were representatives from the CPC Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, the Office of the Central Leading Group on Financial and Economic Affairs, the General Office of the State Council, the State Development and Reform Commission, the People's Bank of China, and the Supreme People's Court, some media representatives, as well as officials of the CSRC departments and heads and cadres of the relevant organs. Source: CSRC official website

Public Opinions Solicitation on “SSE Guidance for Credit Risk Management in Corporate Bonds Duration (Draft for Comment)”
25 Jan 2017
To strengthen the credit risk management in corporate bonds duration and earnestly safeguard investor’s legitimate rights and interests, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has lately released the “SSE Guidance for Credit Risk Management in Corporate Bonds Duration (Draft for Comment)” (the “Guidance” for short) to solicit public opinions. An official of the SSE said that the SSE has always adhered to the principle of laying equal emphasis on the market development and the risk control in its bond market. It has greatly intensified the front-line market regulation and effectively prevented and resolved credit risks while striving to serve the overall situation of the real economy and the national economy, and has ensured the steady operation of the market. The SSE has actively promoted the construction and improvement of the fundamental systems of the bond market. The “Guidance” aims at remedying the shortcomings of the bond market’s self-regulatory rules, implementing the entity responsibility of the issuer and the trustee in the bond credit risk management, changing the market ecology of stressing issuance and neglecting aftermath supervision by securities companies in their bond business, setting up a continuous and normalized credit risk management system and advocating prior control of bond credit risk, thus laying a solid foundation for the construction of a high standard bond market. The “Guidance” mainly includes the following aspects: the first is to implement the entity responsibility of market institutions in bond credit risk management. The issuer and the trustee should, according to the requirements of the “Guidance”, carry out such risk management operations as continuous monitoring and categorizing, investigation and warning, and resolving and disposing, and fulfill corresponding duties of information disclosure. Other institutions, such as credit enhancement institutions, underwriters and credit rating institutions, should perform their own functions and cooperate with the issuer and the trustee to do a better job in risk management. Investors should keep evaluating the credit risks of the bonds invested and make sure to invest rationally and safeguard their legal rights. The second is to stress the prior and in-process prevention and resolving of credit risk. The trustee and relevant institutions are required to keep monitoring the change of bond credit, judge the risks through risk evaluation, check and other methods, give feedback to the issuer on the risk points that might influence timely repayment, and urge it to actively resolve the relevant risks. The issuer should take pertinent and effective measures to resolve default risks and disclose its implementation. The third is to center on risk-oriented category management. The “Guidance” classifies corporate bonds into 4 categories – normal, concerned, risky and default according to different credit risk degrees. The trustee should, according to the rules of the “Guidance” and other reasonable standards, implement category management on bonds based on the results of risk monitoring and check. The “Guidance” has made different system arrangements for each risk category in terms of the requirements on risk check, resolving and disposing, and the fulfillment of information disclosure and reporting duties. Besides, it is also required to submit regular and provisional risk management reports to the SSE, which has fully demonstrated the basic rule of risk-oriented category management. The SSE official said that for the convenience of all market participants, especially the bond issuer and trustee, to better understand and implement the “Guidance”, the SSE will organize publicity and mobilizing activities and business trainings for relevant market institutions after the release of the “Guidance”, so as to guide all market participants to implement relevant requirements of the “Guidance” effectively. The deadline of the opinion-soliciting for the “Guidance” is February 10, 2017. Next, the SSE will improve the “Guidance” according to the opinions of market participants.   Attachment: Notice of Soliciting Public Opinions on “SSE Guidance for Credit Risk Management in Corporate Bonds Duration (Draft for Comment)

Agreement on Purchasing Equity of PSX Inked Today
20 Jan 2017
On January 20, 2017, a consortium of the China Financial Futures Exchange (CFFEX), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), Pak-China Investment Company Limited and Habib Bank (Pakistan), together with the Equity Selling Committee of the Pakistan Stock Exchange (PSX), held in Karachi a signing ceremony for an agreement on purchasing equity of the PSX. Attending the ceremony were Ishaq Dar, Finance Minister of Pakistan, Zafar Hijazi, Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan (SECP), and Sun Weidong, Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan. Liu Shiyu, Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) sent a congratulatory letter. According to the agreement, the consortium will hold 40% equity of the PSX and the 3 Chinese exchanges will hold 30%. Next, the consortium will, in line with the reform required in the “Act of Stock Exchange’s Corporatization, Demutualization and Integration (2012)” of Pakistan, strengthen its efforts in an array of work items of the PSX in an all-round way, such as developing multi-tier stock, bond and derivatives markets, enhancing technological capabilities, improving investors’ cognitive ability and cementing the protection of investors, in a bid to propel the further and faster growth of the PSX and the Pakistani capital market. The purchase is a major measure to implement China’s “One Belt and One Road” strategy and boost the construction of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). The SSE will consistently adhere to tactical reform, innovation and opening-up, take advantage of the “One Belt and One Road” strategy to speed up its internationalization led by the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, strive to become a spearhead in the Chinese capital market to go global, and stride forward towards the goal of building itself into a world-class exchange.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Q & A on 2016 Acquisition, Reorganization and Regulation of SSE-Listed Companies
20 Jan 2017
Recently, an official of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) answered questions on the acquisition and reorganization as well as the regulation of the listed companies on the SSE in 2016. 1. How to give full play to the role of acquisition and reorganization in serving the real economy is an issue widely concerned by all market participants. As a main board and a blue-chip market, the SSE has always been an important platform for acquisition and reorganization. The Central Economic Working Conference held recently required that the capital market should support the enterprises in merging and reorganization, and implement merging and reorganization as much as possible instead of bankruptcy and liquidation, and higher expectation has been attached to acquisition and reorganization in resolving the overcapacity. Therefore, can you brief on the general situation and main characteristics of acquisition and reorganization on the SSE market in 2016? A: In 2016, under the “law-based, strict and comprehensive” regulation of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the SSE market recorded stable operation on the whole, and the good momentum was also reflected in the acquisition and reorganization on the SSE. The listed companies were more rational and pragmatic in implementing acquisition and reorganization, and kept close to the track of the operation of the real economy. Although there were slightly fewer companies implementing acquisition and reorganization, the quality and efficiency were improved. The whole year saw a total of 594 times of companies completing the acquisition and reorganization with a total trading volume of RMB850 billion, down by 31% and 18% respectively from a year earlier. In terms of the major assets reorganization, a total of 178 companies suspended trading to initiate the reorganization, down by 28% year-on-year; a total of 150 plans for reorganization were disclosed, a drop of 1.32% from a year earlier; a total of 89 companies completed major assets reorganization, with a total transaction volume of RMB350 billion involved, and about RMB190 billion of market value was added with another 13 companies exceeding RMB10 billion in market capitalization newly added. Generally speaking, in 2016, the acquisition and reorganization on the SSE market operated in the main orientation toward serving the real economy in the aspects of supporting reform, strengthening main business, promoting transformation and cutting overcapacity, with industrial logic and value guidance upheld in the whole process. Firstly, the acquisition and reorganization formed a new highlight in the supply-side reform and the reform on state-owned enterprises. In 2016, the state-owned holding companies listed on the SSE made progress in both reform of state-owned enterprises and supply-side reform at the same time and played a more adequate role as the main channel for acquisition and reorganization, with 61 cases of acquisition and reorganization and nearly RMB300 billion of transaction amount achieved, taking half size of transactions of acquisition and reorganization on the SSE. Specifically, substantive steps were made in the overcapacity reduction in iron and steel, coal, cement, chemical and other industries, more and more enterprises in the TMT, high-end equipment manufacturing and other emerging industries went public, and the governance structure, asset quality and the systems and mechanisms of the state-owned listed companies were improved simultaneously. Thereby, the SSE-listed companies have been important testers and bellwethers for the supply-side reform. For example, Baosteel Co., Ltd. merged Wuhan Iron and Steel (Group) Corp., avoiding the repeated construction and effectively coordinating and balancing the internal capacity; BBMG Corporation acquired Tangshan Jidong Cement Co., Ltd., having improved the concentration of the cement industry to resolve the overcapacity; China National Medicines Corporation Ltd. carried out the internal business integration to adapt to the national strategy of deepening the medical system reform. In addition, through acquisition and reorganization, 17 state-owned listed companies introduced strategic partners, and implemented the equity incentive and employees’ stock ownership plan. The reform of the state-owned enterprises is being deeply propelled. Secondly, the acquisition and reorganization acted as a supporting point for transformation and upgrading as well as cultivation of new impetuses. In 2016, extending, strengthening and refining the industrial chain on the basis of the main business was the keynote in acquisition and reorganization on the SSE. Among the 150 major cases of reorganization, nearly 130 companies were involved in industrial integration horizontally or vertically with the transaction amount reaching nearly RMB400 billion, and both the number of the plans and the transaction amount accounted for 80% of the totals of the companies implementing overall reorganization on the SSE. From the industrial perspective, 90% reorganization achieved the leap forward to the high-end and emerging link of the industrial chain through the upgrading or internal integration in the same industry, and the situation of scattered, small-sized, weak and underdeveloped enterprises in some traditional industries was improved, reflecting a good momentum toward returning to the real economy in acquisition and reorganization. In terms of the underlying of merger and acquisition, nearly one third of the underlying assets were concentrated on the information technology industries such as computer communication equipment manufacturing, information transmission, software and information technology services, with nearly one half concentrated on other emerging industries such as high-end manufacturing, energy conservation and environmental protection, biology and medical treatment and new energy, demonstrating the new orientation toward the acquisition and reorganization linking up with the high-end value creation. Among the typical cases, Qingdao Haier acquired the businesses of GE’s sector of household appliances, improving the coordination effect through the global industrial distribution; Xinjiang Urban Construction (Group) Co., Ltd. acquired an intelligent textile equipment manufacturing enterprise, transformed and upgraded from the construction industry to the high-end equipment manufacturing industry; YTO Express became the first domestic listed company in the express delivery service industry through the backdoor listing operation with Dayang Trands. Thirdly, the acquisition and reorganization served as a driving force for the "One Belt and One Road" initiative. In 2016, the leading and radiating effect of the "One Belt and One Road" initiative appeared. The cross-border mergers and acquisitions of the SSE-listed companies continued to increase, and 25 cases of overseas merger and acquisition took place with over RMB120 billion involved, accounting for nearly 20% of the total volume of merger and acquisition, showing the “new normal” of dual increases in quality and quantity. In addition, among more than 200 SSE-listed companies related to the "One Belt and One Road" concept, over 100 companies have carried out overseas businesses, with 10 companies’ revenue of overseas businesses accounting for more than 50% of the total revenue. The typical cases included: Shanghai Electric Power acquired Pakistan KE Co., Ltd. through cash offer, so as to boost the construction of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor; Shanghai Electric acquired Shanghai Prime Machinery Co., Ltd. and Thales SAIC Transportation System Limited Company in a bid to help the companies participate in the construction of the major projects and transportation infrastructure on the "One Belt and One Road" strategy; Boway Alloy acquired Ningbo Kangnaite, set up the production center of photovoltaic products in Vietnam and the marketing and service center in the US, and achieved the cross-border coordinated development. At the same time, the acquisition and reorganization demonstrated the coordination effect, wealth effect and market value effect. In the first three quarters of 2016, the 89 companies completing the reorganization recorded a total of RMB384.3 billion in operation revenue, up by 39.4% year-on-year; they attained RMB20.2 billion in net profit, an increase of 112.6% from a year earlier. Specifically, 52 of the companies achieved the year-on-year increase in net profit, and 21 companies saw the net profit grow by more than 100%. Regarding the market capitalization, after excluding the impact of the large-cap market, the market capitalization grew by 101% on average compared with that before the reorganization, and 21 companies saw their market capitalization doubled. 2. Many market participants believed that regulation was the key word for the reorganization market in 2016. The aftermath inquiry about the reorganization plans has become a regular task for the SSE in regulation as well as a “standard requirement” for the reorganization plans. What issues does the SSE mainly pay attention to in the reorganization inquiry? A: In 2016, under the guidance of the CSRC, focusing on the mainline of real economy, the SSE mainly gave play to the role of reorganization inquiry in warning and correcting, highlighted the “strictness” and effectively fulfilled the responsibility for frontline regulation of acquisition and reorganization. The SSE made aftermath inquiries for 150 reorganization plans, raised nearly 2,000 questions for examination and approval, required the intermediaries to make over 1,500 comments, and called for the companies to give nearly 300 warnings about major risks. The SSE continued to raise the “6 must-ask questions” so as to block the “hidden channels” for violations in an all-round way. The first must-ask question is about the listing through reorganization. The SSE has been strict in implementing the standards for identifying the listing through reorganization, and made pertinent and thorough inquiries repeatedly about the “evading” plans that were highly concerned by the media and investors. The SSE required 12 companies doubted by the market to hold the news briefings to reply to the media’s questions face to face. After the inquiries, nearly 10 companies voluntarily terminated the reorganization. The second must-ask question is about the high estimation. The SSE required related companies to explain the rationality for their significantly higher estimated value-added ratio than those of the companies in the same industry, the possibility of realizing the expected explosive performance growth, and the coverage and supporting measures of their performance commitment to the trading amount. The third must-ask question is about the characteristics of the industry. The SSE intensified the inquiry about the information on the industry of the underlying asset, and called for the disclosure of the factors of the industry for the underlying assets such as the general situation, the position in the industry, the profit-making model, the industry barriers, the access conditions and the technical replacement. The fourth must-ask question is about profit delivery. The SSE required the underlying asset intensively introducing shareholders during the trading suspension period and in the last 6 months to disclose the necessity for introducing new shareholders, the fairness of stock pricing and whether there were misconducts harming the rights and interests of small and medium-sized investors. The fifth must-ask question is about the coordination effect. The SSE required the companies implementing cross-main-business merger and acquisition to disclose in detail how to integrate the acquired assets with their existing businesses; the SSE required the companies implementing cross-border merger and acquisition to explain whether the completion of merger and acquisition would result in the loss of main clients. The sixth must-ask question is about accounting treatment. The SSE paid special attention to the recognition of assets income, connected transaction, devaluation of stocks and goodwill impairment and the compliance of assets transaction and tax treatment, so as to avoid “puffiness” and “watering” in the performance of underlying assets. While making inquiries, the SSE strictly cracked down on the behaviors violating laws and regulations in acquisition and reorganization, and implemented 8 disciplinary sanctions and 17 regulatory measures for the companies, intermediaries and related accountable persons, involving a total of over 20 companies, over 40 accountable persons and 6 employees of intermediaries. The main violations are as follows. The first was “false” reorganization. For example, during the planning and preparing for reorganization, a company claimed that it negotiated with 7 underlying companies successively and signed the framework agreements with 3 companies. But it made no substantial progress during its long-term trading suspension, and announced failure 7 months later. The second was inadequate disclosure of risks. For example, a company disclosed a reorganization plan, and 5 months later, the counterparty required it to reassess the impacts of the listed company's equity litigation and other matters on the stability of the corporate governance, and the two sides decided to terminate the reorganization. However, as the company had not disclosed the related risks previously, the investors’ expectation was seriously affected. The third was failure in timely disclosing the progress. For example, a company failed to disclose the major changes to the related issues in the reorganization plan such as occupation of funds, loans of underlying assets, pledge of stock right and the stock rights of the counterparty. The fourth was the intermediaries failing to fulfill the responsibilities as doorkeepers. For example, a company omitted the transaction price and had wrongly written characters, missed characters and grammatical mistakes in various parts of its disclosed reorganization plan, and the intermediary failed to issue a necessary reminder. 3. In 2016, in addition to the reorganization inquiry letters, the SSE sent the inquiry letters about disclosure of other types of information, which also drew the attention of the investors widely, and many violations and behaviors taking advantage of the loopholes “perished” after the repeated inquiries. Some inquiry letters even caused the “phenomenal” influence and sparked heated debates in the market. The situation made us believe that significant changes have taken place to the SSE’s modes and means of regulation over information disclosure. Can you give some information in this regard? A: In recent years, great changes have indeed taken place in the SSE’s frontline regulation over information disclosure. The changes have been carried out step by step and gradually deepened under the coordination of the CSRC and have been the inevitable choice to adapt to the transformation of the market situations and intensify the frontline regulation. Actually, the quality improvement of reorganization inquiry has resulted from the changes. Specifically, the regulatory transformation in information disclosure has experienced the “three steps”. The first step is returning to the basic responsibility. After nearly one year of preparations such as full training for listed companies in advance and issuing a series of working guidelines, the direct channel for information disclosure was implemented in an all-round way in July 2013. Since the direct channel was launched, as the first person responsible, the listed companies have strengthened their awareness of, enhanced their responsibility for and improved the efficiency in their information disclosure. The regulators at the SSE and the investors have had access to the announcements at the same time, and the regulatory behaviors have been put under the market’s supervision. Therefore, the regulatory standards need to be further unified, the regulatory openness has been an inevitable choice, and the direct channel has become the “crux” for regulatory transformation. The second step is the improvement of quality, as the regulation on industry information disclosure was implemented in January 2015. The regulation on different industries is a more scientific mode in regulation, which can improve the effectiveness of information disclosure and give a better play to the role of information disclosure in value delivery and risk warning. At present the logic and methods of industry regulation have been fully used in the inquiries about the periodic reports and interim announcements. Many securities analysts said that now the periodic reports have been more meaningful. The third step is getting to the root of the matter, which has been gradually deepened since the second half of 2015. The regulatory inquiry in the way of "getting to the root of the matter" has been mainly made for the announcements about hot and crucial topics or with misleading contents. In the in-process regulation, the SSE has tried to tackle the early and minor issues in an effective and meticulous way, get to the root of the matter, clearly show the regulatory attitude, urge the correction in a timely manner, avoid the improper disclosure misguiding the investors’ trading, and give full play to the role of regulation on information disclosure in restricting speculation on theme-related stocks, preventing illegal profit delivery and defusing market risks. After the inquiry, more than 100 behaviors possibly harming the small and medium-sized investors have been corrected. These efforts, in general, have achieved certain success and been recognized by the market. Next, we plan to, on the basis of summarizing the experiences, invite more market specialists and investors to participate in the regulation on information disclosure, pool the wisdom and forces in the market, and make regulatory inquiry a hard means in cracking down on violations in information disclosure. 4. We notice that driven by the regulation, the A-share acquisition and reorganization market has been rational, and its start in 2017 has also continuously witnessed this kind of trend. What considerations does the SSE have in the regulation on reorganization in 2017? A: In 2017, the SSE will, according to the 3 regulatory requirements, continue to comprehensively enhance the frontline regulation in the general keynote of moving forward while maintaining stability. For the aspect of acquisition and reorganization, based on refining aftermath inquiries on reorganization schemes, more efforts will be made to highlight the risk and service orientations of the regulation, so as to ensure the healthy and orderly growth of the reorganization market. (1) Five risks should be strictly prevented. Firstly, leverage risk: listed companies should disclose in detail such key information as source and proportion of leverage capital, follow-up repayment arrangement, interest fee payable and repayment deadline, and make risk alerts in an “at the top” manner. Secondly, trading risk: listed companies and trading counterparts should fully estimate and practically disclose the risk of their reorganization failure to investors. Thirdly, cross-main-business risk: for those purchasing assets regardless of their major business, importance should be attached to whether a listed company has technological conditions, talent reserve and operation experience for cross-main-business operation. Fourthly, integration risk: a listed company is required to disclose in detail whether its core technicians, major clients and intellectual property rights of underlying assets may be drained or can not be renewed. For overseas acquisition, it is specially required to disclose whether there exist geo-politic risks or non-acclimatization issues. Fifthly, devaluation risk: a listed company should fully remind of possible devaluation risks of all its assets measured according to its goodwill and fair value and fluctuations of its business performance thereof. (2) The ability of serving national strategies should be improved in an all-round way. For an array of important problems and difficult issues such as the mixed ownership reform of state-owned enterprises, the removal of outdated capacity, energy-saving and eco-friendly development, listed companies’ going global, a three-in-one service mode of consultation, training and information disclosure should be built and the platform and demonstration functions of the SSE should be well played. With regard to information disclosure, we should respect the market rule of acquisition, rationally use the regulations’ flexibility, support differentiated reorganization schemes of the important listed companies reducing production capacities, decreasing inventories, deleveraging, lowering costs and improving deficiencies; cross-border acquisition should be propelled by giving necessary policies for trading suspension time, disclosure of financial documents and other aspects. For training and consultation, employees should be organized to explain the acquisition and reorganization policies of listed companies and respond to questions about laws and regulations. Efforts should be made to ensure prior answering, in-process reminding and aftermath retrospect; qualification training of Secretaries to Directorate, follow-up training, training for new listed companies and other platforms should be used to help the companies correctly understand policies, laws and regulations and improve the quality and efficiency of their reorganizations.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Commendation Conference for Outstanding Institutions, Individuals on 2016 SSE Bond Market Held
17 Jan 2017
On January 16, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held a commendation conference for outstanding institutions and individuals on the SSE bond market. A total of 32 outstanding institutions and 43 individuals were awarded at the commendation conference, which covered underwriting, trading, custody and business innovation of bonds and other aspects. In 2016, the SSE bond market adhered to the thought of “focusing on both development and risk control”, implemented five development philosophies of “Innovation, Coordination, Green, Openness and Sharing”, supported the supply-side structural reform, and urged real-economy enterprises to complete the tasks of reducing production capacities, decreasing inventories, deleveraging, and lowering costs. According to the requirement of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) for legal, strict and all-round regulation, the SSE vigorously strengthened the frontline regulation on market participants and the risk management on bond default and repurchase, thus playing a positive role in serving the real economy, lowering enterprises’ financing cost and preventing systematical risks. By the end of 2016, the SSE market had had RMB6.2 trillion bonds under custody and 8,077 bonds listed, with the total bond trading volume (including bond repurchase) of the whole year up to RMB225 trillion. Besides, green corporate bonds and asset-backed green securities, innovative start-up corporate bonds and renewable corporate bonds were steadily launched. In 2016, a total of 14 green corporate bonds and 3 asset-backed green securities were issued, with a total size up to RMB22.3 billion; 2 innovative start-up corporate bonds were issued with a total size up to RMB55 million; 11 renewable corporate bonds were issued with a total size up to RMB31.1 billion. Shanghai Government Bonds were issued on the SSE in 2016, with the first batch of issuance size up to RMB30 billion, which successfully explored a new way for issuing local government bonds by tender on a stock exchange and added a new issuance channel for such bonds. The participating institutions on the SSE bond market have actively carried out business management on bonds and asset-backed securities. According to the requirement of “know your clients”, the institutions have strengthened investigation on due diligence of underwriting, reinforced internal risk control management, cemented bond custody management, and enhanced monitoring, alert and settlement of default risks. In addition, they innovated in the business of bonds and asset-backed securities, invested in and traded bonds, and maintained market order subject to regulatory oversight. Therefore, a number of excellent institutions and individuals have emerged. The business and risk management of institutions on bonds and asset-backed securities were highlighted in the appraisal for the commendation, and an award of “Excellent Custodian of Corporate Bonds” was added to encourage the institutions to enhance their business quality, compliance and risk control management, and improve their custody and risk management in the renewal period. The 32 awarded institutions are from the industries of securities, banking, insurance, fund and asset management. It is hoped that the awarded institutions and individuals will cherish the honors and make greater achievements. All the institutions on the SSE bond market are expected to further consolidate their business foundations, put risk management on the foremost place, legally fulfill their duties, actively involve themselves into the SSE bond market according to the deployment of the CSRC and co-build a high-quality and high-standard SSE bond market. Attachment: List of Outstanding Institutions and Individuals on 2016 SSE Bond Market (Chinese Version Only)

SSE Releases “Q & A on Regulation on Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure”
15 Jan 2017
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) released the “Q & A on Regulation on Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure” (the “Q & A” for short) on January 15, 2017 for listed companies’ reference in their information disclosure. It is a major measure of the SSE for both cementing the regulation and optimizing the regulatory service. Since the SSE initiated the business of the direct channel for information disclosure in 2013, the SSE-listed companies’ sense of responsibility has continuously strengthened and the quality of their information disclosure has been enhanced gradually. However, with changes in the capital market, diversification of listed companies’ business types and higher requirements for information disclosure, the listed companies has higher difficulties in understanding and implementing the relevant rules. Especially, a lot of newly-listed companies can not fully understand the rules, which brings about a higher risk of violations. While cementing the frontline regulation, the SSE also puts service into the regulation. According to its regulatory practice, it has sorted out the difficulties, questions, mistakes and risks that might encounter in listed companies’ information disclosure, and based on that, worked out the “Q & A” upon analyzing key points of rules, specifying regulatory standards, and answering questions of listed companies in advance. Thus, risk control has been advanced to lower the possibility of violations, that is, the regulatory service is optimized for listed companies’ standard information disclosure. The “Q & A” released this time has 4 parts, involving the business types which are frequently used and with the most problems in listed companies’ routine information disclosure. Apart from business performance prediction, governmental subsidies, election of independent directors, the content related to compilation and submission of periodical reports has also been added in the “Q & A” considering that it is time to disclose the 2016 annual reports soon. The SSE interprets the relevant rules based on the regulatory practice. Although relevant laws and regulations, the “Stock Listing Rules” and other regulations have made clear requirements for information disclosure of listed companies and relevant obligators, flaws and even violations in information disclosure have still been seen in the regulation. Most are resulted from their incorrect understanding of rules and disclosure requirements. The “Q & A”, in light of previous regulatory cases, has sorted out the high risks in all kinds of business types. For the deviations in understanding of important rules and articles, the SSE has given clear explanations and eliminated misunderstandings. On the other hand, for various frequently asked questions about the rules’ application, such as the disclosure standard, time, methods and content and relevant decision-making procedures, the SSE has, according to different business types, highlighted the key points and requirements of the rules, specified the regulatory standards and effectively reminded of the relevant risks. Practicability has been emphasized and the way of asking and answering interchangeably has been adopted. The “Q & A” aims to help listed companies to solve problems in their information disclosure, and it covers the frequently used business types with the most problems in their routine information disclosure. Categorization and the way of asking and answering interchangeably have been adopted in compiling it, with practicability emphasized as well. Namely, in different business types, key problems and points are put forward in the way of questions so as to give explanations and raise attention. All this is to help listed companies to conveniently find their problems and get answers in a more direct and clear way as well as deal with risks through concentration of their resources, thus more effectively arranging their information disclosure and improving their disclosure quality and standard operation. The compilation of the “Q & A” will never end. The SSE will periodically update, complement and release it according to revisions to the regulatory rules and in light of the new or common problems found in the regulatory practice. The “Q & A”, coming from the regulatory and information disclosure practice and attaching importance to convenience and hi-efficiency, will serve as an encyclopedia for listed companies’ routine information disclosure, which will boost the disclosure quality to a higher level by guiding them to compliantly and effectively disclosure information.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange   Attachment: Q & A on Regulation on Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure (Chinese Version Only)

SSE, MOEX Held “2016 Russian Capital Markets Forum”
22 Dec 2016
On December 22 2016, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (the SSE) and the Moscow Exchange (the MOEX) co-held the “2016 Russian Capital Markets Forum” at the SSE’s trading floor. This is the second gathering of the two exchanges in Shanghai, China since the First Russian Capital Markets Forum in November 2015. Mr Wu Qing, Chairman of the SSE, met with Mr Alexander Afanasiev, CEO of the MOEX. Mr Huang Hongyuan, President of the SSE and Mr Alexander Afanasiev attended the forum and delivered the opening remarks. This year’s forum was attended by representatives from Russian Ministry of Finance, Bank of Russia as well as representatives from over 40 Russian and Chinese listed companies and financial institutions. In-depth discussions were carried out on topics such as “Chinese financial investments in Russia”; “Russian financial market infrastructure” and “Key investment opportunities on the Russian capital markets”. The development of a long-term cooperation mechanism between the capital markets of China and of Russia was further discussed during the forum. Mr Huang Hongyuan, President of the SSE addressed in his opening speech that “Russia and China are friendly neighbors. During the past few years, economic and trade relations between the two nations are also getting closer. There has been extensive cooperation in energy, industrial fields, and infrastructure construction. In the field of financial cooperation, the two nations are also ushered in the development of major opportunities.” Mr Huang Hongyuan said, “The SSE and the MOEX have always maintained good relations of cooperation. There have been multiple exchange of visits as well as signing of cooperation memorandum of understanding (MoU).” He also hopes that through this forum financial institutions can make new and greater contributions, not only strengthening the friendship between the two countries, enhancing bilateral strategic mutual trust, but also maintaining development interests of the two nations. Mr Alexander Afanasiev, CEO of the MOEX, expressed that the MOEX’s internationalization had progressed extensively in the past few years. The proportion of overseas investors had reached 45 percent. Mr Afanasiev hopes that the two exchanges can further explore more diversified financial products jointly in the future. On the same day, two securities companies signed MoUs with the MOEX. This signifies the steady expansion of the bilateral financial cooperation from inter-government level to inter-market level. This forum has built a new platform which strengthens the communication between financial institutions in both China and Russia. In recent years, the SSE and the MOEX have established a close and friendly relationship. In November 2015, the SSE assisted the MOEX with the First Russian Capital Markets Forum in Shanghai. In September 2016, at the invitation of the MOEX, the SSE’s Executive Vice President, Mr Que Bo lead a delegation to the MOEX. During this visit, the two exchanges shared with each other the experience in expanding its overseas market in recent years, encouraged the establishment of a mechanism for exchange of visits, and carried out data cooperation in related fields.

Workshop Held to Promote Utilization of the Capital Market by Industry and IT Enterprises
22 Dec 2016
In order to boost the “Made-in-China 2025 Strategy” and implement the strategy of manufacturing power and cyber power, on December 13 and 14, 2016, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT) of the P.R.C. joined hands with the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) to organize in Shanghai a workshop on “Guiding Enterprises in Utilizing the Capital Market” for China’s system of industry and information technology. Present at the workshop were more than 120 representatives of the industry and information technology authorities and enterprises in 31 provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities, the cities specially designated in the state plan and Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps. Attending the workshop and delivering speeches were Wu Qing, SSE Party Chief and Chairman, Wang Xinzhe, Director of the Financial Department of the MIIT, SSE President Huang Hongyuan and SSE Vice Chairman Zhang Dongke. As a specific move to implement the memorandum of strategic cooperation between the MIIT and the SSE, the workshop was designed to help the industry and information technology authorities in different regions to understand and get familiar with the relevant policies and rules for the capital market and effectively guide the enterprises in utilizing the capital market in restructuring and listing, merging and reorganization, issuing corporate bonds and other work items, so as to improve the enterprises’ financing capacity and improve the quality, performance, transformation and upgrading of the enterprises. At the workshop, Director Wang Xinzhe introduced the instructions and requirements made by MIIT Minister Miao Wei and MIIT Vice Minister Liu Lihua in the first place. Wang stressed that financial support is indispensable for implementing the strategy of manufacturing power and cyber power as well as promoting the effective transition between the old and the new driving forces. In accordance with the requirements of the “Made-in-China 2025” issued by the State Council and the “Guiding Opinions of the State Council on Fueling the Integrated Development of the Manufacturing Industry and the Internet”, the MIIT has worked with the Ministry of Finance, the People’s Bank of China and the China Banking Regulatory Commission to carry out the cooperation in integration of the manufacturing industry and the financial industry, and issued the relevant documents. In order to expand the fields of the cooperation, the MIIT and the SSE have made joint efforts to guide the enterprises in using the capital market in financing, strengthened the cooperation in information sharing, restructuring and listing of the enterprises, issuance of corporate bonds, issuance of asset-backed securities and the products related to stocks and bonds and other aspects, and guided the financial capital and social capital in stepping up the support for the “Made-in-China 2025 Strategy” and other key sectors, so as to provide the fund guarantee for stabilizing growth, adjusting structure and improving performance in the industries. Wang also made arrangements for specific tasks. In his keynote speech, SSE President Huang Hongyuan briefed the workshop on the relationship between the capital market and the development of the real economy. He said that playing the role in serving the real economy, the capital market has the financing functions such as supporting the listing of the enterprises in the emerging industries and providing diversified financing instruments, as well as the functions of resource allocation such as setting up the platforms for merger, acquisition and reorganization, forming the enterprise screening mechanism and providing the risk management instruments. The capital market should support the development of industry and information technology, and facilitate the economic transformation and upgrading in China, and the exchanges should facilitate rationalized reinforcement of the enterprises in industry and information technology. Chairman Wu Qing stressed in his speech that the industry and information technology sector, an important part of the national economy, plays a crucial role in the supply-side structural reform and is of great significance in stabilizing the growth, promoting the reform, adjusting the structure and improving the people’s livelihood. He also stressed that a large number of industrial enterprises have solved the problems of difficult and costly financing on the capital market, and the capital market has energetically promoted the effective allocation of industrial resources by various means. He said that the workshop was a specific move to implement the cooperation memorandum, and in the future the two sides will, in accordance with the strategic deployment of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council, further strengthen cooperation and support the real economy through the effective integration of the industry and the capital market, so as to jointly advance the supply-side structural reform and push China’s manufacturing industry to continuously develop and expand. At the workshop, the experts at the SSE analyzed the situations, requirements and strategies in the listing of the enterprises, the bond financing products and policies and other issues. The representative of Chongqing Municipal Commission of Economy and Information Technology briefed on their initiatives and experience in carrying out the cooperation of the industrial and financial sectors and boosting the “Made-in-China 2025 Strategy”. Representatives of two enterprises described their experience in financing by issuing bonds. The representatives attending the workshop discussed and compared notes on guiding the enterprises’ financing on the capital market, and visited Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China Ltd., the SSE and other units.

Notice of Releasing “Format Instruction on Information Disclosure for Temporary Reports of Corporate Bonds”
16 Dec 2016
All market participants, In order to further standardize the information disclosure of corporate bonds and protect investors’ legitimate rights and interest, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the “Format Instruction on Information Disclosure for Temporary Reports of Corporate Bonds” (see attachment) according to the “Securities Law of the P.R.C.”, the “Management Measures on Issuance and Trading of Corporate Bonds”, the "SSE Corporate Bonds Listing Rules", the “SSE Provisional Measures on Business of Non-public Issuance of Corporate Bonds” and other regulations. The format instruction is hereby released and implemented.   Attachment: Format Instruction on Information Disclosure for Temporary Reports of Corporate Bonds (Chinese Version Only)   Shanghai Stock Exchange December 16, 2016

CSDC, SSE, SZSE Co-release Guidance for Risk Control on Trading, Settlement in Collateralized Repo of Bonds
09 Dec 2016
To propel the long-term sound growth of the exchange-traded bond market and further improve the risk management on collateralized repo of bonds on the exchange-traded market, China Securities Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd. (CSDC), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) have co-released and implemented the “CSDC, SSE and SZSE Guidance for Risk Control on Trading and Settlement in Collateralized Repo of Bonds” (the “Guidance” for short). For a long time, CSDC, the SSE and the SZSE have attached great importance to risk management on collateralized repo of bonds. The promulgation of the “Guidance” is one of the major measures for optimizing the risk management on collateralized repo of bonds on the exchange-traded market. Since the end of 2015, according to the general deployment of the 2015 Central Economy Work Conference of 2015 on strengthening the supply-side structural reform and boosting the campaign of “reducing production capacities, decreasing inventories, deleveraging, lowering costs and improving deficiencies”, the risk management on collateralized repo of bonds have been continuously cemented and improved by CSDC, the SSE and the SZSE in several aspects to prevent and lower the systematical risks of the exchange-traded bond market. (1) The dynamic adjustment of pledged bonds’ conversion rate has been launched and steadily pushed forward to further enhance the refined risk management of pledged bonds. (2) The “Management Measurers on Standard Bonds’ Conversion Rate (Value)” and the “Guidance for the Admittance Standard of Collateralized Repo’s Qualification and the Sampling Business of Standard Bonds’ Discount Factor” have been newly revised and promulgated to greatly lower the discount factors of credit bonds, especially low-grade credit bonds. (3) The three-party bonds evaluation has been introduced to further improve the effectiveness of the mark-to-market management on guarantees for pledged bonds. The above risk management measures contributed to improving and cementing the risk control of pledged bonds, realizing the refined management on credit risk, price risk, liquidity risk and concentration risk of pledged bonds, playing a major role in curbing and lowering repo lever and optimizing the in-storage structure of pledged bonds, and accomplished the goal of supporting superiority and limiting inferiority, achieving refined management and preventing systematical risks. As management on collaterals and repo financing entities are two indispensable aspects in the risk management on bonds repo, apart from the above bonds management measures, efforts should be made to further strengthen management measures on repo financing entities and participating institutions, in a bid to solve an array of problems such as imperfect risk management system of participating institutions, weak risk control on clients, insufficient management measures and means and imperfect risk control indicator system of the collateralized repo business of bonds. Thus, CSDC, the SSE and the SZSE have studied to formulated the “Guidance”, which put forward specific requirements of risk control for trading participants, settlement participants and financing entities in the financing repo business according to three trading and settlement modes (i.e., brokerage, custody and proprietary trading). The “Guidance” aims to guide participating institutions including securities companies and custodian banks to strengthening the risk management on investors, further define risk control indicators such as entry of investors and use rate of standard bonds, repo lever and concentration degree of in-storage, and build a comprehensive and effective risk management system of bonds repo covering investors, participating institutions, and trading and settlement institutions, so as to ensure the long-term sound growth of the exchange-traded bond market. While drafting the “Guidance”, CSDC, the SSE and the SZSE carried out a wide and thorough market survey and made full problem-oriented data calculation according to the market conditions, which met the need of strict risk management and considered the affordability and acceptability of the market. Since the “Guidance” solicited public opinions on September 9, the market participants generally acknowledged its regulations and held that it would be conducive to guiding participating institutions to build and improve risk control systems and facilitate the long-term sound development of the market. CSDC, the SSE and the SZSE have absorbed rational suggestions and opinions from the market participants. In order to leave enough time for the market participants for business adjustment and necessary business-related technical preparations, the “Guidance”, in light of the market opinions, has given different arrangements of transitional periods to the market for different risk control regulations, and specified the arrangements in the release notice. Next, CSDC, the SSE and the SZSE will organize the market to implement all the work items for the “Guidance”, sponsor market trainings and guide participating institutions to deeply understand and comprehensively implement the “Guidance”. Attachment: Q&A by Officials of CSDC, the SSE and the SZSE on Issues for Co-releasing Guidance for Risk Control on Trading and Settlement in Collateralized Repo of Bonds (Chinese Version Only) Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice on Issuing “CSDC, SSE, SZSE Guidance for Risk Control on Trading, Settlement in Collateralized Repo of Bonds”
09 Dec 2016
All market participants, To promote the development of the exchange-traded bond market and strengthen the risk management of collateralized repo of bonds, in accordance with the “Measures for Management of Issuance and Trading of Corporate Bonds” issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and other relevant rules, China Securities Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd. (CSDC), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) have jointly formulated the “CSDC, SSE and SZSE Guidance for Risk Control on Trading and Settlement in Collateralized Repo of Bonds” (the “Guidance” for short). The “Guidance” is hereby released and the relevant issues are announced as follows: 1. As from today, the institutions directly holding or renting the Participant Business Units (PBUs) of the stock exchanges, the clearing participants of CSDC and other relevant participating institutions shall, in accordance with the relevant requirements of the “Guidance”, complete their business and technical preparations as soon as possible. 2. According to Article 7 of the “Guidance”, individual investors shall settle all their financing repos in 12 months as from today, and shall not increase the undue balance of the financing repos during the period. 3. The repo financing entities unqualified for the requirements of Article 13 of the Guidance shall make adjustment until meeting the relevant requirements of the Guidance in 6 months as from today. Before meeting the requirements, the repo financing entities shall not increase the undue balance of the financing repos. 4. For the pledged bonds that have been submitted for storage but do not meet the requirements of Article 14 of the “Guidance”, the relevant repo financing entities shall adjust the in-storage concentration rate below 15% and 10% in 8 months and 12 months as from today, respectively. Before meeting the requirements, the repo financing entities shall not increase the storage of the bond. 5. For violations of the rules in the “Guidance” other than those stipulated in the second, third and fourth items in this notice, the participating institutions and the repo financing entities shall make adjustment to meet the requirements within 3 months as from today. 6. As from today, the original “SSE Guidance for Risk Control of Collateralized Repo of Bonds” shall be abolished simultaneously. The notice is hereby released. Attachment: CSDC, SSE, SZSE Guidance for Risk Control on Trading, Settlement in Collateralized Repo of Bonds (Chinese Version Only) China Securities Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd. Shanghai Stock Exchange Shenzhen Stock Exchange December 9, 2016

SSE Issues New Guidelines for Industry Information Disclosure to Enhance Sub-sector Regulation
02 Dec 2016
Recently, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) issued the Guidelines No. 14 to 20 for information disclosure of the listed companies in the 7 sub-sectors of wine and spirits, transmission of broadcasting and TV, service for environmental protection, water production and supply, chemicals, air transportation, and agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry and fishery. The guidelines will come into effect as from January 1, 2017. It is another important measure taken by the SSE, following the guidelines for information disclosure for 13 industries issued in two batches last year, in a bid to continuously strengthen the regulation and dynamically improve the rule system of information disclosure for different industries. An SSE official answered the relevant questions as follows. 1. Q: Can you brief us on the basic information about the issuance of the guidelines? A: It is a fundamental task for the SSE to cement and refine the regulation of the sub-sectors by continuously improving the rule system of information disclosure in accordance with the changes to the industrial patterns of the listed companies. There are two reasons for the selection of the 7 sub-sectors for the formulation of the information disclosure guidelines. First, these sub-sectors have gained some sizes and drawn much attention from the investors. In the second and third-tier sub-sectors selected this time under the manufacturing sector and the transportation sector, such as the wine and spirits, air transportation and water production and supply, the numbers of the listed companies are all nearly or more than 10, with the conditions in place for formulating separate guidelines for information disclosure. Meanwhile, these sub-sectors are unique in business model, product features, risk factors and other aspects, and previous focus on the disclosure of financial information failed to accurately reveal the value of the industry and the company. The formulation of the specialized guidelines will also help the investors make more professional judgments in their investment. Second, the sub-sectors represent to some extent the new impetus caused by the supply-side structural reform. In 2016, under the guidance of the national industrial policy, the companies in green ecology, information technology service, service for environmental protection, transmission of broadcasting and TV and other sub-sectors have seen their performance keep growing steadily in the context of the overall slowdown of the macroeconomic growth, representing the directions of the supply-side structural reform and increasingly drawing attention of the market and the investors. Therefore, meeting the market demand, the SSE gave priority to the relevant sub-sectors in making plans for formulating the information disclosure guidelines for different industries, hoping to channel the capital into such hi-tech and green industries through high-quality information disclosure. After the implementation, the guidelines for the 7 sub-sectors, coupled with the guidelines for 13 sub-sectors already implemented on the SSE as well as the guidelines for the financial sector issued by China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), will make the rule system of the information disclosure guidelines on SSE more complete and comprehensive, covering more than 700 listed companies and over 80% of the market value. 2. Q: What are the main requirements in the information disclosure guidelines for the 7 sub-sectors issued by the SSE this time? A: In the actual research on the listed companies, the five factors of the macro influence of the industry, the development of the customer market, the current conditions of the key resources, the profitability strategic plan and the implementation of the key process are considered to be the key dimensions that can best reflect the industrial characteristics of the company, best represent the investment value of the company and best reveal the risk factors in the industry. The newly issued guidelines are highly relevant to the core indicators of the industries and focus on the “five dimensions in one” requirements for the disclosure of the industrial business information. For example, in terms of the macro influence on the industry, the guidelines for the air transport industry specially require the companies to disclose the specific influence of the changes to multiple external factors such as politics, economics, oil prices and exchange rates, and conduct the sensitivity analysis; while the guidelines for the chemical industry and the environmental protection service industry stress the analysis of the influence of the macro policies and industry standards on the companies. In addition, with regard to the current conditions of key resources, the guidelines for the industry of agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry and fishery clearly require the companies to disclose the ownership and specific circumstances of the important resources for production and operation, and the guidelines for the wine and spirits industry standardize the disclosure of the information about the brand structure and marketing channels of the companies. Moreover, in the aspect of profitability strategic plan, the guidelines for the industry of transmission of broadcasting and TV specifically require the companies to disclose the development strategy and the main risks in the arrangements for the construction of the next generation of networks of online broadcast, the integration of three networks (the internet, the telecommunication network and the TV and Broadcasting network) and other tasks. At the same time, in the process of formulating the guidelines, importance was also attached to the principle of “balance of complexity and simplicity”. We not only require the listed companies to deeply and thoroughly disclose the core value and the risk indicators of the company on the basis of the industry characteristics and the actual business situations, but also adhere to the principles of balance of disclosing both comprehensive and important information and “explaining once failing to disclose”, so as to spare space for the companies’ independent disclosure and avoid increasing the costs for the listed companies in information disclosure or producing information redundancy. 3. Q: The SSE has implemented the sub-sector regulation for almost two years. Can you brief on the relevant work? A: The SSE introduced the regulation of information disclosure for sub-sectors in January 2015. There are mainly two objectives: first, it is to further improve the effectiveness of information disclosure on the basis of compliance and meet the investors’ demand for high quality business information of the sub-sectors; second, it is to better fulfill the responsibility for frontline regulation of information disclosure, and give full play to the role of the high quality industry information in curbing speculation and preventing market risks. In the practice of the daily regulation, the SSE has, centering on the objectives of sub-sector regulation, always adhered to integrating promotion of value investing with cracking down on speculation, guarding the bottom line of compliance with improving the level of effectiveness, and regulation of financial information and non-financial information, having achieved certain effects. In terms of the examination of annual reports, under the sub-sector regulation mode, the examination of the 2015 annual reports shows the following two new features. First, in the examination contents, we have intensified the regulatory inquiry about the “five dimensions in one” industrial business information and raised a total of more than 2,700 relevant questions, accounting for 77% of the total questions for inquiry, having actually improved the effectiveness of the companies’ disclosure of information and stepped up the implementation of the guidelines for the industries. Second, in the mode of examination, we have strengthened the regulatory inquiry in the mode of “seeking root causes”. We have sought the root and crucial causes for the problems affecting the authenticity of the annual reports and the judgment of the investors by conducting in-depth analysis of the unmatched and inconsistent disclosure of financial and non-financial information, until the company makes accurate and complete disclosure. In the examination of the temporary announcements, we have adequately integrated the sub-sector regulation and the regulation in the mode of “seeking root causes” and formed a set of effective mechanisms and methods. For example, in the supervision over the abnormal fluctuations of stock prices, we have required the listed companies to make comparisons in the information disclosure with the market performance of other listed companies in the industry in the same period. In addition, in the aftermath review of the information disclosure for major asset reorganization plans without the need of approval, in which the underlying assets are much involved in the emerging industries such as similar finance, the internet, film, TV and entertainment, virtual reality and graphene, we have set the focus of the aftermath inquiry on profit model and warning of related risks in the industry. All the measures have played a certain role in curbing the speculation. Over the past two years, on the one hand, the efficiency of the information disclosure regulation has been improved, and the value of information disclosure has been constantly increased. According to a sampling survey among nearly 100 analysts of the brokerage firms, more than 80% of the analysts believed that the effectiveness of the information disclosure of the SSE-listed companies has been much more improved than before. On the other hand, the disclosure of the industry information is playing an increasingly significant role in refraining speculation, warning trading risks, improving market ecology and other aspects. 4. Q: After issuing the third batch of guidelines for industry information disclosure, what other arrangements has the SSE made in formulating the guidelines? A: Since 2015, the SSE has made a total of 20 sets of guidelines for industry information disclosure in 3 batches, covering the vast majority of the SSE-listed companies. So far, the formulation of the industry guidelines has basically come to an end. Next, according to the change of the number of the listed companies and the actual demand for regulation, we will continue to research and formulate the information disclosure guidelines for some sub-sectors on the basis of the situations. In addition, the SSE will further step up the implementation of rules, pertinently intensify the examination of the industry information disclosure and urge the companies to effectively improve the quality of information disclosure with the orientation toward the investors’ demands. We will timely take the regulatory measures for the violations of failing to disclose the business information according to the requirements without any justified reason. 5. Q: With the announcement of annual reports approaching, what should the listed companies pay special attention to in implementing the guidelines for industry information disclosure in the annual reports? A: The industry business information is an important part of disclosure of the annual report, as well as an important basis for the investors to judge the value and risks of the company. According to the problems in the previous annual reports, when implementing the requirements of the guidelines for industry information disclosure, the listed companies should pay special attention to the following issues. Firstly, the sub-sector business information disclosed should be complete. The listed companies should, according to the requirements of the guidelines and their own business characteristics, comprehensively cover the “five dimensions” of the macro influence of the industry, the development of the customer market, the current conditions of the key resources, the profitability strategic plan and the implementation of the key process, and fully disclose the industry business information, so as to help the investors clearly understand the company and effectively make their investment decisions. Secondly, the non-financial interpretation of the financial information should be adequate. In analyzing the annual financial data, the listed companies should, instead of simply stating the data changes, make comparatively thorough explanation and interpretation of the causes for the financial data changes by involving the non-financial industry information related to the financial data, including the operating cycle of the industry, the circumstances of other companies in the industry, the development of the customer market, changes to the owned resources and the characteristics of the business models, etc. Thirdly, the business risks in the industry should be disclosed clearly. When disclosing the industrial business information, the listed companies should avoid the problems of more positive statements and fewer risk warnings as well as more vague expressions and less accurate disclosure. The companies should, on the basis of the industrial business situations in the “five dimensions”, make qualitative, quantitative, comprehensive and accurate analysis and disclosure of related risks and impacts. Especially, the companies involved in new business formats, emerging industries and new models should fully disclose the uncertain risks in personnel, funds, market, implementation and other aspects. Fourthly, the principle of “explaining once failing to disclose” should be implemented adequately. The listed companies, who find it difficult to disclose the relevant industrial business information according to the guidelines for specific sub-sectors for objective reasons, should strictly implement the rule for “explaining once failing to disclose”, and explain the detailed reasons for disclosure unavailable to the market investors in the “Report of Board of Directors” in the annual report.   Links: Notice on Issuing the SSE Guidelines No. 14 to 20 for Sub-sector Information Disclosure (Chinese Version Only) Drafting Instruction on Guidelines No. 14 to 20 for Sub-sector Information Disclosure of Listed Companies (Chinese Version Only) 　　

SSE, SZSE Adjust Requirement for Qualified Securities Offsetting Margin for Margin Trading and Securities Lending, Add More Underlying Stocks
02 Dec 2016
Upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) have revised the “Detailed Rules for Implementation of Margin Trading and Securities Lending” and adjusted the requirement for relevant conversion rate of qualified securities offsetting margin (The conversion rate of any stock with static price-to-earnings ratio higher than 300 times or minus was adjusted to 0%), in a bid to further improve the structure of the margin trading and securities lending business, cement the management and propel the long-term steady development of the business. Besides, the two exchanges have expanded the scope of the underlying stocks for margin trading and securities lending to 950 underlying stocks from the existing 873 ones, among which 485 underlying stocks on the SSE were increased to 525, and 388 ones on the SZSE increased to 425. The above adjustments shall come into force on December 12, 2016. Conversion rate of qualified securities offsetting margin is the rate for the securities that could be taken as margin to be converted into a sum of margin. A securities company charges a sum of margin from its client when it carries out the margin trading and securities lending business. Apart from cash, the margin could be offset by securities such as listed stocks, securities investment funds, bonds and money market funds. The conversion rate of qualified securities offsetting margin decides the margin amount that could be converted by the qualified securities submitted by investors. After the adjustment to the conversion rate, any stock with static price-to-earnings ratio above 300 times or suffering losses in its business performance could not be converted as the margin for margin trading and securities lending. In the principle of drawing a line between the present and the past, for the contracts with positions opened before implementing the new rule (before market closure on December 9), an investor need not to close out a position or add margin resulted from the insufficient margin triggered by the rule adjustment this time, and it may roll over its contract according to relevant regulations and contract stipulations. Besides, for the convenience of actual operation, the two exchanges both require securities companies to adjust the conversion rate of qualified securities offsetting margin according to the stock’s static price-to-earnings ratio after the market closure on the last trading day every week (The adjusted conversation rate shall be implemented on the next trading day). The adjustment to the conversion rate could improve the quality of collaterals for margin trading and securities lending, further lower the risk of the margin trading and securities lending business, guide rational investment and value investing and further boost the sound and steady growth of the margin trading and securities lending business and the capital market. Underlying stock is the stock that could be used for margin trading and securities lending. According to the “Detailed Rules for Implementation of Margin Trading and Securities Lending” of the SSE and the SZSE, the exchanges will, in the principle of from strictness to slackness, from few to many, and expansion step by step, decide the list of underlying stocks and publish it to the market. Previously, the two securities exchanges have expanded the scope of underlying stocks for 4 times. The 77 stocks added this time are those characterized by low price-to-earnings, high floating market capitalizations, brisk trading and stable market performance. The expansion of underlying stocks will further expand the coverage of underlying stocks and meet diversified investment needs of investors. Moreover, the two exchanges will set a periodical appraisal and adjustment mechanism of underlying securities, make a two-way adjustment to underlying securities at the end of every quarter, namely, timely deleting unqualified underlying securities and ushering in qualified ones for maintaining the steady amount of underlying securities, and optimize the structure of underlying securities for investors’ risk control.   Attachments: 1. Notice of Relevant Issues for Expanding Scope of Underlying Stocks for Margin Trading and Securities Lending (Chinese Version Only) 2. Notice of Revising Articles 35 and 65 in “SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Margin Trading and Securities Lending” (Chinese Version Only) Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Guidance for Business Management on Split-capital Funds Released
25 Nov 2016
Upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently released the “SSE Guidance for Business Management on Split-capital Funds” (the “Guidance” for short). As a major system arrangement for ensuring sound operation of the fund market, the “Guidance”, with the ideas of “let the buyers beware” and “let the sellers perform their duties”, specifies the investor suitability arrangement of the split-capital funds’ secondary market, the requirements for investors to sign “Risk Disclosure Statement of Investment in Split-capital Funds”, and the risk alert arrangement for fund mangers and securities companies. According to an SSE official, the SSE solicited opinions from the public for the “Guidance” from September 9 to October 9, to which all market participants paid high attention, with a total of 535 opinions received by email, including 53 from institutions and 482 from individuals. Generally, they acknowledged the “Guidance” and gave opinions and suggestions for optimization and improvement. Upon study, the SSE accepted some opinions and adjusted and improved the “Guidance” as follows: (1) A sixth article was added, that is, the exchange, according to the market condition or as requested by fund managers, may suspend the subscription for split-capital funds and the application for partition and merger of funds, or carry out trading suspension and resumption. (2) The stipulation of one-hour trading suspension on B-category fund units on the afternoon of the down-conversion benchmark day was deleted. (3) It specified that investors shall sign the “Risk Disclosure Statement” in a written form on site at the relevant business department. (4) Contents of some articles were adjusted and perfected. The official introduced that for the most raised opinions and suggestions on lowering the threshold of investor suitability, no adjustment is made as the “Guidance” had made full survey and demonstration for the investor suitability of split-capital funds. Besides, some opinions and suggestions were not accepted as they are not covered by the “Guidance”, or have no conditions for implementation. The main content of the “Guidance” includes: (1) The investor suitability system has been improved to enhance management on and risk disclosure of investors’ entry. By referring to the merits of high-risk financial products such as stock index futures and the business of margin trading and securities lending in investor suitability management, a threshold of securities assets worth RMB300,000 has been set for investors, and it is required that individual investors and general institutional investors should go through a comprehensive assessment and sign a risk disclosure statement of investment in split-capital funds before starting their split-capital funds trading and getting relevant permissions. Investors not meeting the above conditions for investor suitability may still continuously hold or sell the units of split-capital funds currently held by them at their discretion. (2) Risk alert measures have been strengthened to improve the pertinence and effectiveness of risk alert to investors. For the split-capital funds which may undertake or have undertaken down-conversion with high premium in B-category fund units, the relevant fund managers are required to issue an announcement on risk alert, and the members should timely disclose risk alert to investors as required by the exchange. (3) The investor education system has been improved to urge fund mangers and members to fulfill the duty of investor education. They are required to fully disclose risk alert of split-capital funds and better serve investors to properly handle disputes. (4) Investors’ responsibilities and obligations have been specified and investors’ risk awareness has been enhanced. Investors are required to observe the principle of “let the buyers beware”, and as requested by members, provide all the credentials of investor suitability management and be accountable for the authenticity, correctness and legality of the credentials. Besides, according to the existing operation and management system of split-capital funds, the “Guidance” further specifies the split-capital funds’ conversion business process, so that investors can correctly understand the conversion mechanism of split-capital funds. The official added that a transitional period was set between the release of the “Guidance” and its official implementation, in a bid to ensure that relevant sides would make full preparations and the market trading would be in normal order. According to the notice of issuing the “Guidance”, the “Guidance” will take effect from May 1, 2017. Securities companies should complete relevant preparations for their business and technologies before February 25, 2017. After that, they may grant relevant permissions of split-capital funds to eligible investors. Investors without permissions will not be able to buy split units of split-capital funds and partition basic units of split-capital funds after May 1, 2017, but they may continuously hold or sell the units of split-capital funds currently held by them at their discretion.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice on Issuing “SSE Guidance for Business Management on Split-capital Funds”
25 Nov 2016
All market participants, To strengthen the business management on split-capital funds and protect the legitimate rights and interests of investors, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) formulated the “SSE Guidance for Business Management on Split-capital Funds” (the “Guidance” for short). Approved by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the “Guidance” is hereby issued and the related matters are notified as follows: 1. The “Guidance” shall come into effect as of May 1, 2017. After the enforcement of the “Guidance”, the investors without permissions for split-capital funds will not be able to buy split units of split-capital funds and partition basic units of split-capital funds. Investors who have split units of split-capital funds but without the related permissions may continue to hold or sell the units of split-capital funds currently held by them at their discretion. 2. All member units are required to complete the preparatory work for their businesses and technologies before February 25, 2017, including formulating the system and operation procedure for investor suitability management, working out the “Risk Disclosure Statement of Investment in Split-capital Funds” according to the essential provisions attached to the “Guidance”, and upgrading and testing related technical systems. 3. After completing the preparations for their related businesses and technologies, the member units may grant the related permissions for split-capital funds to the investors meeting the requirements of the “Guidance”. 4. All member units should attach great importance to the implementation of the “Guidance” and strengthen their efforts in organization and leadership. All member units should, within 3 trading days after the end of each month, submit to the SSE a written report on the progress in improvement and testing of their technical systems and the grant of permissions to investors. The SSE will announce the method of submission separately. 5. All member units and fund managers should set up and improve their internal work mechanisms, conduct the business related to split-capital funds in strict accordance with the provisions of the “Guidance”, and make effective efforts in investor education, risk alert and other related work. 6. The SSE will supervise and inspect the member units on their implementing the requirements for investor suitability management and other aspects. For the members failing to implement the related requirements of the “Guidance”, the SSE will, on the basis of the situations, take self-regulatory measures or disciplinary sanctions, which will also be reported to the CSRC.   Attachment: SSE Guidance for Business Management on Split-capital Funds (Chinese Version Only)   Shanghai Stock Exchange November 25, 2016

SSE Improves Review Remedy System to Protect Legitimate Rights & Interests of Self-regulation Objects
18 Nov 2016
Approved by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently issued the “SSE Measures for Implementation of Review” (the Measures for short), further improving the review system and strengthened the protection for the legitimate rights and interests of the self-regulation objects. The review system is an internal remedy system where a stock exchange, on the basis of the application of a self-regulation object, reviews the relevant self-regulatory decision that has been made. In accordance with the provisions related to the review system of the stock exchanges in the “Securities Law”, the SSE issued the “SSE Interim Provisions on Review System” in 2007, and established a review committee mainly composed of external experts to fulfill the responsibility of examination for the matters to be reviewed. The committee has played the role of rights relief in the practice of delisting listed companies. In recent years, with the capital market further regulated in a stricter and all-round way according to law, the SSE, as a self-regulatory institution, has taken more responsibilities for frontline regulation in the capital market by vigorously taking more disciplinary actions and other punitive measures for violators. While stepping up regulation and intensifying punishment on the violations, the SSE finds it necessary to further improve the review and other internal remedy mechanisms, so as to ensure the standardized and fair procedures of self-regulation and fully protect the legitimate rights and interests of the self-regulation objects. To this end, on the basis of summarizing the practical experience, the SSE has revised the “SSE Interim Provisions on Review System” and transformed the interim provisions into the formal rules, thus forming the Measures. The Measures has revised and improved the existing review system in the following two aspects: on the one hand, the Measures has expanded the scope of the review matters, with an aim to provide more self-regulation objects with the access to rights relief and further standardize the SSE’s self-regulation. The Measures has expanded the decision on public censure for the members and the parties concerned in the existing review matters to all the objects of self-regulation. Moreover, it has included in the review scope the relatively severe disciplinary treatment decisions such as identification of those unqualified for directors, supervisors or senior management of a listed company or unqualified investors. Thus, the Measures has included in the review scope the vast majority of disciplinary treatment decisions and the self-regulatory decisions related to listing such as refusal, suspension and termination of listing. On the other hand, the Measures has improved the examination procedures for the review, and enhanced the authority and representativeness of the review decisions as well as the convenience in applying for review. To improve the representativeness of the review opinions and the authority of the review decisions, the Measures has increased the number of the committee members attending each review meeting from 5 to 7, so as to form the review decisions from extensive opinions of more committee members. In addition, to standardize the procedures, the Measures has clearly set the review time limits for all review matters and the principle that the implementation of the original decisions shall not be suspended during the review period. Furthermore, to facilitate the self-regulation objects’ applications for review, the Measures has stipulated that the channels for submitting the applications and the contact information of the review working group shall be announced on the SSE website. After the issuance and implementation of the Measures, the SSE will strictly carry out the rules in its self-regulatory work, accept and examine the qualified applications for review and effectively strengthen the protection for the procedures and substantive rights and interests of the self-regulation objects.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

First Adjustment to SSE 50 ETF Option for Dividend Distribution
18 Nov 2016
On November 11, 2016, Huaxia Fund Management Co., Ltd. issued the “Announcement on Dividend Distribution of SSE 50 ETF”, stating that the SSE 50 ETF (ticker symbol: 50 ETF; code: 510050) would distribute dividend, with the ex-dividend date of November 29. It will be the first dividend distribution by the underlying of the SSE 50 ETF option contract since the option’s launch on February 9, 2015. The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will, according to the “SSE Rules for Pilot Program of Stock Option Trading”, adjust all the unexpired contracts of the SSE 50 ETF option on November 29 and re-launch new option contracts. Q1: Why need the option contracts to be adjusted after the dividend distribution of the SSE 50 ETF? A: When an option contract’s underlying has right and interest changes (such as dividend distribution), the option contract needs to be adjusted to ensure that the interests of the buyer and the seller of the option contract are not affected. The contract’s nominal value will remain unchanged after the adjustment, with its market value approximately equal to that before the adjustment. Q2: What adjustment will be made to the terms of the option contract? How to adjust? A: Exercise price, contract unit, trading code and short description will be adjusted for all the unexpired SSE 50 ETF option contracts. (1) New contract unit = [original contract unit (10,000 units) × closing price of SSE 50 ETF on Nov. 28] / [closing price of SSE 50 ETF on Nov. 28 － cash dividend (RMB0.053 per unit)] (2) New exercise price = original exercise price × original contract unit / new contract unit The adjusted contract unit is rounded off to an integer, while the adjusted exercise price is rounded off to the nearest 0.001. (3) The 12th place of the contract’s trading code is adjusted to A from M, which means the first adjustment is made to the option contract; the exercise price from the 13th place to the 17th place of the code remains unchanged. (4) The exercise price for the short description of the contract is adjusted to the new exercise price, and the symbol in the final place is A. (Originally, there is no symbol.) RMB0.053 dividend is distributed for every fund unit of the SSE 50 ETF. As the closing price of the SSE 50 ETF on November 28 is unknown, taking the closing price of RMB2.361 of the SSE 50 ETF on November 16 as an example, the new contract unit = [10,000 ×2.361] / [2.361-0.053] = 10,230. The adjustment is as follows: Number Trading code Short description Exercise price (RMB) Contract unit Before adjustment 10000661 510050C1612M02300 50 ETF Buy Dec 2300 2.3 10,000 10000669 510050C1612M02350 50 ETF Buy Dec 2350 2.35 10,000 10000691 510050C1612M02400 50 ETF Buy Dec 2400 2.4 10,000 After adjustment 10000661 510050C1612A02300 50 ETF Buy Dec 2248A 2.248 10,230 10000669 510050C1612A02350 50 ETF Buy Dec 2297A 2.297 10,230 10000691 510050C1612A02400 50 ETF Buy Dec 2346A 2.346 10,230 Q3: How to calculate the price limit and the initial margin of the SSE 50 ETF option contract after the adjustment on November 29? A: After adjustment to the option contract, the trading and settlement will be carried out according to the adjusted contract terms. On November 29, the price limit and the initial margin will be calculated according to the adjusted contract unit and the previous settlement price. Specifically, the adjusted previous settlement price ＝ original contract settlement price × original contract unit / new contract unit Q4: How many new contracts will be launched and traded on November 29? A: The SSE will, according to the ex-right and ex-dividend price after the dividend distribution of the SSE 50 ETF, re-launch 40 new call and put option contracts for 4 expiry months (Dec 2016, and Jan, Mar and Jun 2017), with five exercise prices (one at-the-money, two in-the-money and two out-of-the-money). The contract unit of the newly launched contracts is 10,000, with the 12th place of the trading code being M and no symbol in the final place of the short description. Q5: What issues should position-holding investors of the adjusted option contract pay attention to? A: After adjustment to the option contract, the SSE will not add any contracts with new expiry months and exercise prices for the adjusted contract. Besides, if the end-of-day position of the adjusted contract is zero, the SSE will delist the contract on the next trading day. Thus, investors need to pay attention to the liquidity of the adjusted contract. Q6: What issues should option investors with covered position on November 29 pay attention to? A: The covered position will face insufficient covered securities as the new contract unit is higher than the original contract unit (10,000) after the adjustment to the option contract. Therefore, investors with covered positions need to supplement covered securities according to the new contract unit within the prescribed time. Forced liquidation may be imposed if they fail to make the supplementation or close out their positions in a timely manner. Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Shanghai Government Bonds Issued as MOF-SSE Government Bonds Issuance System Launched
14 Nov 2016
On November 11, 2016, the MOF-SSE Government Bonds Issuance System was launched, through which the 2nd batch of Shanghai Government General Bonds in 2016 was smoothly issued. Local government bonds now have a new issuance channel. According to the new “Budget Law” and the “the Opinions of the State Council on Strengthening Management of Local Government Bonds” (Guo Fa [2014] No. 43 Document), local governments financing through issuance of government bonds have adopted the self-issuance and self-repayment mechanism in an all-round way since 2015, with the issuance size dramatically ascending. To give full play to the function of the exchange-traded bonds market and further improve the building of the local government bonds market, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), under the instruction of the Ministry of Finance (MOF), developed the MOF-SSE Government Bonds Issuance System and made full preparations for relevant business and technologies. On October 17, the MOF gave a written reply of approving the launch of the system for issuance of local government bonds. The Shanghai Government Bonds issued this time are the first batch of local government bonds issued after the system’s launch. The local government bonds of Shanghai successfully issued by tender this time are a kind of Shanghai Government General Bonds, with the maturities of 3, 5, 7 and 10 years, and each maturity with the issuance amount of RMB6 billion, RMB6 billion, RMB9 billion and RMB9 billion, respectively, totaling RMB30 billion. It is learnt that the underwriting group of the bonds consists of 29 underwriters, including 6 securities companies, i.e., CITIC Securities, China Securities, Guotai Junan Securities, Orient Securities, GF Securities and China Merchants Securities. The underwriters in the category of securities companies actively participated in the subscription, with the total bidding amount of RMB9.9 billion, accounting for 33% of the issuance size; those in the category of banks boasted a total bidding amount of RMB20.1 billion, or 67% of the issuance size. The successful launch of the MOF-SSE Government Bonds Issuance System and the smooth issuance of the Shanghai Government Bonds have opened a new issuance channel for local government bonds, which will help optimize the investor groups of local government bonds, and better fuel the growth of the local government bonds market and serve the local financial and economic construction.

Member Lists of the New Board of Governors and Board of Supervisors Generated at 7th SSE General Assembly
30 Sep 2016
The 7th General Assembly of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) was held in Shanghai on September 10, 2016, which generated the 4th Board of Governors, the 2nd Board of Supervisors and the Policy Advisory Committee of the Board of Governors of the SSE. The 1st session of the 4th Board of Governors deliberated on and approved the member lists of other special committees. I. Members of the 4th Board of Governors (13) Chairman: Wu Qing Vice Chairman: Zhang Dongke Non-member Governors: Huang Hongyuan, Huo Da, Yan Bojin Member Governors: GF Securities Co., Ltd. (Sun Shuming), Guotai Jun’an Securities Co., Ltd. (Yang Dehong), Guosen Securities Co., Ltd. (He Ru), Huachuang Securities Co., Ltd. (Tao Yongze), Huatai Securities Co., Ltd. (Zhou Yi), Shenwan Hongyuan Securities (Li Mei), China International Capital Corporation Limited (Bi Mingjian), CITIC Securities Co., Ltd. (Zhang Youjun) II. Members of 2nd Board of Supervisors (7) Chief Supervisor: Pan Xuexian Non-member Supervisor: Jia Wenqin Member Supervisors: Haitong Securities Co., Ltd. (Zhou Jie), China Merchants Securities Co., Ltd. (Wang Yan), China Securities Co., Ltd. (Wang Changqing) Employee Supervisors: Xu Fusheng, Zhang Xiaoyi III. Members of the Policy Advisory Committee of the 4th Board of Governors (19) Members: Essence Securities Co., Ltd. (Wang Lianzhi), Great Wall Securities Co., Ltd. (He Wei), Changjiang Securities Co., Ltd. (Deng Hui), Northeast Securities Co., Ltd. (Li Fuchun), Orient Securities Co., Ltd. (Jin Wenzhong), Soochow Securities Co., Ltd. (Fan Li), Everbright Securities Co., Ltd. (Xue Feng), Sinolink Securities Co., Ltd. (Ran Yun), Huarong Securities Co., Ltd. (Zhu Xianzhong), Nanjing Securities Co., Ltd. (Bu Guoxun), Ping’an Securities Co., Ltd. (Xie Yonglin), UBS Securities Co., Ltd. (Cheng Yisun), Southwest Securities Co., Ltd. (Liao Qingxuan), Cinda Securities Co., Ltd. (Zhang Zhigang), Industrial Securities Co., Ltd. (Lan Rong), China Galaxy Securities Co., Ltd. (Gu Weiguo), Zhongtai Securities Co., Ltd. (Li Wei), China Investment Securities Co., Ltd. (Gao Tao), Central China Securities Co., Ltd. (Zhou Xiaoquan). IV. Members of Other Special Committees of the Board of Governors Special Committee Member Company Post Note Members of Remuneration and Finance Committee (10) Zhou Jie Haitong Securities Party Chief Chairman Member Jiang Yiming Guotai Jun’an Deputy General Manager Vice Chairman Member Song Hongliu SSE Director of Personnel (Organization) Department Vice Chairman Member Dong Guoqun SSE Director of Finance Vice Chairman Member He Chunmei Sealand Securities Chairman, General Manager   Qian Jing Morgan Stanley Huaxin General Manager   Xie Yonglin Ping’an Securities Chairman   Feng Lin TF Securities Chief Financial Officer   Guo Xiaojun Industrial Securities Director of Private Wealth Management Committee   Ning Min BOC International Executive General Manager   Members of SSE Members’ Self-discipline Management Committee (21) He Ru Guosen Securities Chairman Chairman Member Bi Mingjian CICC General Manager Vice Chairman Member Zhang Xiaojing SSE Director of Membership Department Vice Chairman Member Li Zuoqiang Aijian Securities Chairman   Chen Xuefeng Chuancai Securities Deputy General Manager   Yang Junyi Datong Securities General Manager   Pan Xinjun Orient Securities Chairman   He Qicong Founders Securities Chairman   Yu Shixin Guo Yuan Securities General Manager   Zhang Wei Hengtai Securities General Manager   Kuang Yulin Hongta Securities General Manager   Tao Juan Kaiyuan Securities General Manager   Bu Guoxun Nanjing Securities Chairman   Xue Jun Shenwan Sponsorship  General Manager   Zhu Xiaoyu Wanlian Securities Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Risk Officer   Wang Ying N-Securities General Manager   Wu Jian Southwest Securities General Manager   Wang Xiaoping Xiangcai Securities Deputy General Manager   Tian Dejun New Times Securities Chairman, General Manager   Jiang Peixing Zhong De Securities Chief Executive Officer   Wang Yisi AVIC Securities General Manager     Members of Strategic Development Committee (23) Yang Minghui CITIC Securities General Manager Chairman Member Zhou Yi Huatai Securities Chairman, General Manager Vice Chairman Member Wang Yan China Merchants Securities General Manager Vice Chairman Member Wei Gang SSE President of Capital Market Institute Vice Chairman Member Wang Lianzhi Essence Securities President   Qian Longhai First Capital General Manager   He Junyan Northeast Securities General Manager   Fan Li Soochow Securities Chairman, General Manager   Chang Zhe Guodu Securities General Manager   Zheng Wenjie China Development Bank Securities General Manager   Zhang Hongtao Hua’an Securities General Manager   Huang Jinlin Huafu Securities Chairman   Lin Li Chinalin Securities Chairman   Yu Yang China Fortune Securities General Manager   Wu Yufeng Goldstate Securities Deputy General Manager   Hou Wei Shanxi Securities Chairman, General Manager   Chen Canhui CEFC Shanghai Securities President   Li Junjie Shanghai Securities General Manager   Zhu Zhili Vanho Securities Chairman   Zhao Ligong Minmetals Securities General Manager   Liu Jianwu Western Securities Chairman   Chen Hong Eastmoney Securities Chairman、General Manager   Wang Yong Great Wall Glory Securities General Manager   Members of Risk Management Committee (15) Chang Xingong GF Securities Chief Risk Officer Chairman Member Tao Yongze Huachuang Securities Chairman Vice Chairman Member Suo Weiwei SSE Deputy Director of Risk Control and Internal Audit Department (Person in Charge) Vice Chairman Member Wang Jiong Tebon Securities Deputy General Manager, Chief Compliance Officer   Wei Qinghua Dongxing Securities Chairman, General Manager   Qiu Sanfa Guangzhou Securities General Manager   Yao Zhiyong Guolian Securities Chairman   Liu Feng Hongxin Securities Chief Compliance Officer   Yao Zhiyong Hua Ying Securities Chairman   Jiang Meijun Century Securities Chairman   Yu Fan Cinda Securities General Manager   He Wei Great Wall Securities General Manager   Wu Chenggen Zheshang Securities General Manager   Bi Yuguo Zhongtai Securities General Manager   Li Anyou Zhongtian Securities General Manager               Members of Market Transactions Management Committee (20) Li Mei Shenwan Hongyuan General Manager Chairman Member Qi Liang China Securities General Manager Vice Chairman Member Zou Changlin SSE Director of Market Surveillance Department Vice Chairman Member Xie Liansheng SSE Deputy Director of Trading Management Department (Person in Charge) Vice Chairman Member Zhou Li Bohai Securities General Manager   Zhang Ming Caida Securities General Manager   Cai Yibing Fortune Securities President (Acting Chairman)   Li Zhifang Dongguan Securities Deputy General Manager   Ji Lu Sinolink Securities Deputy General Manager   Zhang Zhihe Guorong Securities General Manager   Ma Yuejin Golden Sun Securities General Manager   Liu Jiahai Hwabao Securities General Manager   Han Peng China Dragon Securities General Manager   Fan Ping Huarong Securities General Manager   Dong Lichen Jianghai Securities General Manager   Su Gang Minsheng Securities General Manager   Han Zhiqian Shenwan Western General Manager   He Yagang China Minzu Securities Chairman   Hu Changsheng China Investment Securities General Manager   Zhu Jianmin Central China Securities Executive Deputy General Manager     Members of Review Committee (34) Gong Haibin CSRC Vice Chairman of Administrative Punishment Committee   Mao Hansong CSRC Deputy Director of Listed Company Regulation Department   Wu Guofang CSRC Deputy Director of Legal Affairs Department   He Yanchun CSRC Deputy Director-General of Inspection Bureau   Fu Yan SZSE Director of Legal Affairs Department   Zhang Guoming CITIC Securities Chief Compliance Officer   Wang Jianye Haitong Securities Chief Compliance Officer   Chen Yong Guosen Securities Chief Compliance Officer   Liu Guifang Guotai Jun’an Chief Compliance Officer   Huang Qing China Shenhua Energy Co, Ltd. Secretary to Directorate   Geng Wei Bank of China Limited Secretary to Directorate   Mu Shi Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Secretary to Directorate   Ming Guozhen Qingdao Hai’er Inc. Vice President   Zhang Yuliang Greenland Holdings Co., Ltd. Chairman   Liu Junfeng Tasly Pharma. Vice President   Li Dan PricewaterhouseCoopers Chief Partner   Wang Yang Ernst & Young Great China Region A-share Managing Partner   Wang Yuehao Pan-China Certified Public Accountants Chief Executive Officer   Liu Guibin Ruihua Certified Public Accountants Managing Partner   Tang Lizi King & Wood Mallesons Securities Managing Partner   Zhang Liguo Grandway Law Offices Chief Partner   Wang Lihua Tianyuan Law Firm Chief Partner   Cheng Xiaoming G&S Law Firm Director   Yuan Xi Securities Association of China Director of Innovation Support Department   Liu Rong China Association of Public Companies Deputy Secretary General   Wu Liansheng Guanghua School of Management, Peking University Professor   Shi Tiantao School of Law, Tsinghua University Professor   Ye Lin Law School, Renmin University of China Professor   Zhao Xudong China University of Political Science and Law Professor   Sun Zheng Shanghai University of Finance and Economics Professor   Hu Honggao Law School, Fudan University Professor   Luo Peixin East China University of Political Science and Law Professor   Xiao Kai Law School, Shanghai Jiaotong University Professor   Li Zhigang Shanghai International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission Deputy Director  

Notice on Releasing “Business Guidelines for Changing Ticker Symbol by Listed Company”
30 Sep 2016
All Listed Companies, According to an array of regulations including the “SSE Stock Listing Rules”, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the “Business Guidelines for Changing Ticker Symbol by Listed Company” (see attachment) to standardize tick symbol changes of listed companies, maintain the market order and protect investors’ legitimate rights and interest. The business guidelines is hereby released and shall come into force on October 10, 2016. Besides, for the convenience of listed companies’ understanding and implementation, the SSE, according to the above business guidelines, has synchronously revised and combined two format instructions on temporary announcement related to change of ticker symbol, namely, the “No. 19 Format Instruction – Announcement on Tick Symbol Change of Listed Company” and the “No. 96 Format Instruction – Announcement on Discussing Ticker Symbol Change by Listed Company’s Directorate”, after which the “No. 19 Format Instruction – Announcement (Revised) on (Implementation) of Tick Symbol Change of Listed Company” came into being. Listed companies are required to abide by it. The former two format instructions on temporary announcement were abolished at the same time. Full text of the above revised format instruction on temporary announcement could be found on the "Business Guides and Procedures" sub-column under the “Law & Regulation” column on the SSE’s website (www.sse.com.cn). Listed companies and operating staff of information disclosure shall earnestly learn and observe it, so as to successfully complete their work related to information disclosure and application for business operation.   Attachment: “Business Guidelines for Changing Ticker Symbol by Listed Company” (Chinese Version Only)   Shanghai Stock Exchange September 30, 2016

Remarks on Drawing up “SSE Business Guidelines for Changing Ticker Symbol by Listed Company”
30 Sep 2016
In order to standardize ticker symbol changes of listed companies and protect investors’ legitimate rights and interests, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the “Business Guidelines for Changing Ticker Symbol by Listed Company” (the Guidelines for short). The background, idea and main contents for drawing up the Guidelines are hereby elucidated as follows. I. Background In recent years, cases of listed companies changing their ticker symbols have been on the rise year by year. According to statistics, from 2013 to the end of July in 2016, the SSE recorded a total of 131 cases of listed companies changing ticker symbols (excluding those caused by *ST and ST treatment). According to the causes to the changing and the changed ticker symbols, most companies had the actual demand and rationality for changing their ticker symbols. But at the same time, there were also some issues drawing attention from the market and investors, which are necessary to be regulated. The concrete analysis shows that there are mainly four issues. Firstly, a ticker symbol was changed with the new business yet to be carried out or taking a small proportion. For example, a small number of companies directly changed their ticker symbols according to the name of their new business without any related main business, personnel allocation and feasibility study report, leading to speculation and abnormal fluctuations of stock prices and having the negative impact on the normal market order and the value-investing idea. Secondly, a changed ticker symbol failed to reflect the company's main business and other situations. The ticker symbol is the epitome of a listed company's basic situations, intuitively reveals the company's main business or related factors such as trademark and brand, and should be conductive to investors’ understanding and investment judgment. But changed ticker symbols of some companies were detached from the companies’ reality, failing to reflect their main business lines and other basic situations and finding it impossible to transfer the above-mentioned information accurately to investors. Thirdly, a changed ticker symbol was generalized excessively with exaggerated characters or words adopted. Despite the reflection of the company’s main business, the changed ticker symbols of some companies showed the problem of the adopted characters or words covering an excessive scope. For example, in terms of region, some companies tended to adopt the ticker symbol headed with the Chinese character “Zhong (meaning China)”; in terms of the business scope, some companies used the common names in the industries, especially in the hot and emerging industries, such as life, culture, health and intelligence. Fourthly, a changed ticker symbol was too similar to the existing ones of other companies. As part of trading information, the ticker symbol should be differentiated and remarkably identifiable so as to facilitate recognition. But changed ticker symbols of some companies were too similar to the existing ones of other companies, resulting in some trouble and inconvenience for the investors in recognition. II. Basic idea In principle, changing ticker symbol is a matter of self-governance for listed companies, and they can make choices and decisions on their own. At the same time, with highly indicative effect and significant externality, a ticker symbol is the identification signal for investors to distinguish listed companies, on which basis to conduct trading, and may affect the decision-making of investors. Regarding the problems in the changing of ticker symbols, the SSE, as the market organizer, should fulfill its regulatory responsibility, standardize the behaviors of changing ticker symbols, prevent the companies from taking the opportunity of changing ticker symbol to mislead investors and carry out improper market-value management, and safeguard the stable market order and investors’ interest. Based on the foregoing considerations, in terms of the formulation idea, the Guidelines mainly, on the basis of fully respecting the self-governance right of the companies, takes information disclosure as the breakthrough point to put forward standards and requirements for the companies’ changing ticker symbols in forms, contents, procedures and other aspects. To change its ticker symbol, a company shall reveal the compliance, rationality and procedure legitimacy for its changing behavior, especially fully explain the correlation between the ticker symbol and the business, and thoroughly notify the risks when necessary. In addition, the requirement for information disclosure for the behavior of changing ticker symbol is intensified so as to fully impart the company’s actual management and development to investors and facilitate their decision-making. III. Main contents The Guidelines includes a total of 15 articles. Specifically, Articles 1 to 3 and Article 14 specify the situations for the application and the basic principle, Articles 4 to 7 detail the main requirements for ticker symbol, Articles 8 to 9 stipulate a company’s internal decision-making procedure and the requirements for information disclosure, and Articles 10 to 13 dwell on the specific procedures for handling the changing and the SSE’s in-process and aftermath regulation. The main contents of the Guidelines are as follows. (I) Specifying situations for application and basic principle In terms of the situations for application, the Guidelines specifies the causes to changing a ticker symbol, mainly including the adjustment to the main business of the company, the change to the control right, the demand for operation and development and other facts. Meanwhile, considering a newly-listed company’s need to determine its ticker symbol before the listing and trading, the newly-listed companies are also required to refer to the Guidelines. Changing a ticker symbol is a matter of self-governance for a listed company, but with highly external influence, the changing shall originate from the company’s actual demand for operation and development, instead of illegal purposes such as speculation and improper market-value management. Therefore, in the basic principle, the Guidelines requires that changing a ticker symbol should be in conformity with the provisions of laws and regulations and reflect the factors related to the company’s business characteristics such as its main business, trade mark and brand. (II) Detailing main requirements for a ticker symbol First, the requirements in forms. As trading indicative information, a company’s ticker symbol should meet requirements for technical settings in the trading system and the quotation software. Following the consistent practice in the past, the Guidelines requires that the ticker symbol should be taken fully or partly from the full corporate name of the company, and consist of 3 to 4 Chinese characters, or 8 characters at the most. Considering the convenience in trading and the cultural habits, in principle the English and other special characters should not be adopted, but when they are really necessary to be adopted, specific reasons should be announced. Second, the requirements in contents. A ticker symbol is highly indicative and is one of the vehicles for investors to identify the companies. Therefore, the Guidelines provides that a ticker symbol should have clear meaning and definite indication, and changing of a ticker symbol should not be used to mislead investors; a ticker symbol should be significantly identifiable and should not be excessively similar to the existing ones; the regional and industrial common names which are excessively generalized and are not in line with the company’s actual situations should not be used; public order and good customs should not be violated. A listed company that has not changed the full corporate name, adjusted the business scope or revised the articles of association is not allowed to change its ticker symbol in principle. When the changing is really necessary, reasons shall be fully revealed. Third, the requirements in business correlation. With significant external effect, changing of a ticker symbol should not serve as a channel for improper market-value management. Necessary restrictions should be imposed on the behavior of changing a ticker symbol that is not involved with the corporate businesses, apparently violates the compliance or has seriously negative impact on the market, so as to prevent the speculation. The Guidelines requires that a company which conducts the new business in the forms such as acquisition and reorganization and external investment but has not gained the operating revenue shall not use the name related to the business or the industry as a ticker symbol; a company that has conducted the new business and gained the operating revenue but seen the relevant operating revenue account for less than 30% of the total shall not adopt the name related to the business or the industry as a ticker symbol in principle. When the adoption is really necessary, rationality and necessity shall be fully explained, with the relevant risks notified. (III) Providing the internal decision-making procedure and information disclosure requirements for the companies The stock price is highly sensitive to a listed company changing its ticker symbol, which has remarkable impact on the company and investors. Therefore, a company shall fulfill the necessary internal decision-making procedure and disclose the information publicly. The Guidelines requires that the matter of a listed company changing ticker symbol should be discussed and approved by its directorate; if the full name of the company is to be changed at the same time, the matter should be submitted to the shareholders meeting for deliberation. After the discussion and approval by the directorate, the matters shall, according to the requirements, be disclosed, including the discussion results, causes to changing name and the relation between the ticker symbol and the company’s main business, while necessary risk reminders shall be provided. (IV) Stipulating the specific handling procedure and the SSE’s in-process and aftermath regulatory measures In terms of the handling procedure, the Guidelines provides that a listed company shall make the announcement on its directorate discussing the change of the ticker symbol and submit a written application for changing ticker symbol at the same time. If objection is not raised by the SSE in five trading days, the company can handle and implement the change of the ticker symbol. The company handling and implementing the change of the ticker symbol shall release the relevant announcement on the implementation three trading days ahead of the changing. With regard to the compliance-violating behaviors of using the changing of ticker symbol to mislead the investors or conduct improper market-value management, the Guidelines provides corresponding in-process and aftermath regulatory measures: firstly, the in-process regulation is intensified, and if the changing is not in line with the rules and requirements, the SSE can, based on the situations, require the company to make correction, hold meetings to make explanations for investors, examine the stock trading or take other measures; secondly, aftermath accountability will be implemented, and the SSE will, based on the situations, timely impose disciplinary sanctions on or take regulatory measures for the companies violating the rules in changing ticker symbols.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Trading China Conference for Foreign Investors to Fuel Long-term A-share Investment
14 Sep 2016
Recently, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) successfully held the 2016 Trading China Conference for Foreign Investors, attended by a lot of well-known institutional investors around the world. Jointly discussing at the SSE the topic of development of China’s capital market were more than 70 chief investment officers, fund managers and trading business heads of Noregs Bank, Monetary Authority of Singapore, Bank of Korea and other sovereign wealth funds as well as Black Rock, Vanguard, Fidelity, State Street Corp., Franklin Templeton and other large-sized funds. It has long been the development goal and the key task in the new development stage for the SSE to build itself into a world-class exchange with international influence and competitiveness. As a brand event in the SSE’s internationalized development process, “Trading China Conference for Foreign Investors” has been an important part of the SSE’s international promotion efforts with 7 sessions successfully held so far. The SSE informed the international investors of the latest development of China’s capital market, the SSE’s development strategies in such businesses as stocks, derivatives, bonds and internationalization, and the mechanism, status quo and policies for foreign investments participating in China’s capital market. Besides, it invited international investors to visit China’s well-known enterprises. As a result, the globally influential international investors have a direct and deep understanding of China’s capital market, learn about the market’s status quo and its latest development strategies, and improve their knowledge of and interest in China’s capital market. SSE President Huang Hongyuan said that the SSE has always attached great importance to its services for international investors, and he believed that the event will make the overseas institutional investors learn more about the characteristics of the SSE market. In the future, the SSE will make efforts in internationalization by focusing on the opening up of the capital market and China’s “One Belt and One Road” strategy, and strive to develop into a major platform for international investors, especially the long-term institutional investors, to invest in China’s capital market. Neil Hosie, Head of Equity Trading Asia Pacific at Deutsche Bank, said that the Chinese stock market boasts the highest liquidity in the Asia Pacific region and the second highest liquidity in the world, and the large number of the international investors attending the event indicates that the international investors pay special attention to the current situation and future development of the Chinese market. “With continuous communication and explanation, we will see the investment interest of overseas investors increasingly mature. We look forward to the opening of the Shenzhen – Hong Kong Stock Connect and the continuous development of Shanghai – Hong Kong Stock Connect,” said Mark Mobius, Executive Chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, adding that as China’s largest and one of the top exchanges in the world, the SSE is just at the core of all kinds of development. According to Mark Mobius, Franklin Templeton has always been dedicated to investing in China’s capital market and serving the retail and institutional investors, and is able to fully seize the huge opportunities in China. He said, “With its bright prospects, Shanghai’s market will be larger than its current size, with the foreign exchange control to be liberalized continuously in the next few years.” Charles Lin, Head of Greater China at Vanguard Investments Hong Kong Limited said, “The event has enabled the large overseas institutional investors like us to deepen our understanding of China’s market mechanism and regulatory directions, and made us more convinced in investing in China’s markets in the future and more confident in benefiting the investors in China with the concept of low-cost, long-term and diversified investments.”   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Resolutions of the 7th SSE General Assembly
11 Sep 2016
(Approved at the 7th SSE General Assembly on September 10, 2016) The 7th General Assembly of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) was held in Shanghai on September 10, 2016, convened by the SSE Board of Governors, chaired by Wu Qing and attended by the representatives of 112 members. The assembly discussed and approved the working report of the 3rd SSE Board of Governors. Fully acknowledging the work of the 3rd SSE Board of Governors, the assembly held that getting dedicated to the responsibilities, working hard and earnestly fulfilling the duties, the 3rd SSE Board of Governors has steered the SSE in making great progress in development. The assembly believed that the SSE will unveil a new history with both opportunities and challenges ahead. It should consistently carry out decisions and deployments made by the CPC Central Committee and the State Council. Under the leadership of the Party Committee of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), it will, together with all of its members, attach importance to the two general situations of serving the national economy’s growth and the capital market’s construction, accomplish the core work items of cementing the frontline regulation, preventing the market risks and protecting investors’ rights and interest, focus on the main development line, be bold to rush to the regulatory frontline, hold the risk bottom line, and strive to build the SSE into a world-class exchange providing strong support for the state’s reform and development and effectively allocating the domestic and international resources in accordance with the standard of the world-leading exchanges. The assembly discussed and approved the working report made by SSE President. The assembly fully acknowledged the work of the SSE management in recent years, holding that they have mainly made efforts in implementation and achieved significant results in strategy implementation, market construction, market regulation, technical development, internal management and other aspects. The assembly required that the SSE management should take both down-to-earth and aggressive approaches, focus on strengthening the financing function of the market, intensify the market regulation, improve the protection of investors, push forward the construction of the internal mechanism more rapidly and strive to write the new chapter of the SSE’s development and construction. The assembly discussed and approved the working report of the first SSE Board of Supervisors. It fully acknowledged the work of the first SSE Board of Supervisors since its establishment, deeming that the first SSE Board of Supervisors was bold in exploration, realistic and pragmatic, and fulfilling the duties conscientiously, effectively playing its role in supervision. The assembly required that the new Board of Supervisors should start from a new point, focus on the general situation of the SSE’s construction and development, strive to improve the capability of fulfilling duties, make every effort to ensure the standardized operation of the SSE, and vigorously promote the healthy development of the industry. The assembly discussed and approved the "SSE Constitution (Revised Draft)". According to the assembly, the Constitution is the fundamental and guiding document for the SSE’s establishment and operation, and it is necessary to revise the current Constitution as it no longer adapted to the development of the situations. Amendments have been made in the "SSE Constitution (Revised Draft)" in improving the SSE’s governance structure, implementing the position and responsibilities of the members as the participants in the SSE’s self-regulation, enriching and intensifying the SSE’s function in frontline regulation and other aspects, meeting the objective requirement for the SSE market’s development and regulation. The assembly required that the "SSE Constitution (Revised Draft)" should be submitted to the CSRC for approval in accordance with related provisions. The member governors of the fourth SSE Board of Governors, the member supervisors of the second SSE Board of Supervisors and the members of the Policy Advisory Committee to the Board of Governors were also elected at the assembly. The 8 member governors of the fourth SSE Board of Governors are as follows (in the order of Chinese pinyin of the company, the same below): GF Securities Co., Ltd. (Sun Shuming); Guotai Junan Securities Co., Ltd. (Yang Dehong); Guosen Securities Co., Ltd. (He Ru); Huachuang Securities Co., Ltd. (Tao Yongze); Huatai Securities Co., Ltd. (Zhou Yi); Shenwan Hongyuan Securities Co., Ltd. (Li Mei); China International Capital Corporation Limited (Bi Mingjian); CITIC Securities Co., Ltd. (Zhang Youjun). The 3 member supervisors of the second SSE Board of Supervisors are as follows: Haitong Securities Co., Ltd. (Zhou Jie); China Merchants Securities Co., Ltd. (Wang Yan) CITIC Securities Co., Ltd. (Wang Changqing). The 19 members of the Policy Advisory Committee to the Board of Governors are as follows: Essence Securities Co., Ltd. (Wang Lianzhi); Great Wall Securities Co., Ltd. (He Wei); Changjiang Securities Co., Ltd. (Deng Hui); Northeast Securities Co., Ltd. (Li Fuchun); Orient Securities Co., Ltd. (Jin Wenzhong); Soochow Securities Co., Ltd. (Fan Li); Everbright Securities Co., Ltd. (Xue Feng); Sinolink Securities Co., Ltd. (Ran Yun); Huarong Securities Co., Ltd. (Zhu Xianzhong); Nanjing Securities Co., Ltd. (Bu Guoxun); Ping An Securities Co., Ltd. (Xie Yonglin); UBS Securities Co., Ltd. (Cheng Yisun); Southwest Securities Co., Ltd. (Liao Qingxuan); Cinda Securities Co., Ltd. (Zhang Zhigang); Industrial Securities Co., Ltd. (Lan Rong); China Galaxy Securities Co., Ltd. (Gu Weiguo); Zhongtai Securities Co., Ltd. (Li Wei); China Investment Securities Co., Ltd. (Gao Tao); Central China Securities Co., Ltd. (Zhou Xiaoquan). When the member governors are absent, the members of the Policy Advisory Committee to the Board of Governors can fill the vacancies in order. The assembly called on the SSE and all members to adhere to the missions with consensus and joint efforts, under the strong leadership of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council as well as the unified deployments of the CSRC Party Committee, constantly promote the sustainable, steady and sound development of the SSE with aspiration, dedication and diligence, and make contributions to the general situation of China’s reform and development.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

CSRC Chairman Liu Shiyu Attends 7th SSE General Assembly
10 Sep 2016
The 7th General Assembly of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) was held in Shanghai on September 10. Liu Shiyu, Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), delivered a speech at the general assembly. In his speech, Liu reviewed the work of the SSE in recent years and put forward some requirements for its further development. He stressed that the capital market should focus on the goal of realizing a moderately prosperous society at the 100th birthday of the CPC and a modern socialist country at the 100th birthday of the P.R.C., attach importance to the “Five-in-One” general layout (economic, political, cultural, social and eco-civilization construction) and the strategic layout of “4 Overall Constructions” (building the moderately prosperous society, boosting the reform, ruling the country according to law and cementing the Party discipline in an all-round way), and vigorously implement the five development philosophies (innovation, coordination, green, opening-up, and sharing). He also said that we should firmly adhere to the major philosophy of legal, strict and overall regulation, hold the bottom line of no systematical risk, highlight legitimate rights and interest of investors, stick to the market-oriented, legal and internationalized reform for enhancing the global competence of our capital market, and insist on the fundamental principle of serving the real economy’s growth. A stock exchange should effectively play its statutory functions and duties, thus becoming a platform of safe and hi-efficient resource allocation, the first firewall for regulation on the securities market, and an impetus for the real economy’s transformation and upgrading. Besides, a stock exchange should perfect its governance structure and put the member system into practice. A securities agency should stay true to its mission, fulfill all of its duties as an intermediary and a gatekeeper, persevere in the bottom line of compliance and risk control, jointly participate in the construction of the stock exchange market, cultivate new culture in the securities industry and co-fuel the industry’s sound growth by serving the real economy. It was expected that the SSE and all the securities agencies would take the general assembly as an opportunity to further seek consensuses, shoulder their responsibilities, seize all the key points, and contribute to the general situation, so as to build an open, transparent and permanently sound capital market. Zhou Bo, Deputy Mayor of Shanghai, said that in the first year of the 13th Five-year Plan, it was of great significance for the SSE to re-launch the general assembly to improve its governance structure, cluster consensuses of its members and brew the securities market’s growth. As one of the key factor markets of Shanghai international financial center, the SSE has continuously boosted its opening-up and reform and, together with all the securities agencies, facilitate reinforced rationalization of enterprises through supporting their listing, bonds issuance as well as mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations in the capital market, which has contributed to giving full play to the role of the capital market in optimizing resource allocation and thus greatly propelled the development of the real economy. Wu Qing, Chairman of SSE Board of Governors, made a working report of the 3rd SSE Board of Governors. He said that the SSE would unveil a new history, consistently carry out decisions and deployments made by the CPC Central Committee and the State Council. It will, together with all of its members, attach importance to the two general situations of serving the national economy’s growth and the capital market’s construction, accomplish the core work items of cementing the frontline regulation, preventing the market risks and protecting investors’ rights and interest, be bold to rush to the regulatory frontline, hold the risk bottom line and focus on the main development line, with an aim to build a world-class exchange. At the general assembly, the working reports of the SSE Board of Governors, SSE President, and the first SSE Board of Supervisors were discussed and approved; the "SSE Constitution" was discussed and revised; and the new SSE Board of Governors and SSE Board of Supervisors were elected as well. Jiang Yang, Vice Chairman of the CSRC, also delivered a speech at the closing ceremony. Among those attending the general assembly were Wu Lijun, Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, Gui Minjie, former Chairman of SSE Board of Governors, representatives of 112 SSE members, officials of the CSRC departments and agencies and the units affiliated to the CSRC, head of the Shanghai Financial Working Commission and representatives of institutional investors and media. Source: CSRC website

SSE Revises Business Rules of Shanghai-HK Stock Connect upon the SEHK Adding Closing Auction’s Time Interval
19 Jul 2016
Lately, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) officially revised and released the “SSE Measures for Piloting Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect” (the “Measures” for short). For relevant background and content of revising the “Measures”, an SSE official answered the following questions raised by reporters. 1. Lately, the SSE has revised and released the “Measures”. What are the background and reason of revising it? According to the “Amendment of Implementing Time Interval of Closing Auction in the Securities Market” released by the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Ltd. (SEHK) on June 27, 2016, the SEHK will add the time interval of closing auction after the continuous trading session from July 25, 2016, which will apply to the securities in the prescribed scope. To match up the arrangement of relevant business, the SSE has revised the corresponding articles in the “Measures”. 2. What are the main contents of the SEHK’s closing auction mechanism? The closing auction launched by the SEHK this time mainly adjusted the existing closing trading system, namely adding the time interval of closing auction after the continuous trading and adopting the call auction. Price limit for orders has been set up in the time interval of closing auction, namely, orders not conforming to the price limit will be canceled or refused. At the beginning of its implementation, the closing auction will only apply to the securities in the prescribed scope, while it will be gradually promoted step by step in the future. 3. What are the revised contents in the “Measures”? According to the applicable principles of the rules of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, unless otherwise provided, relevant trading and settlement are subject to the regulatory rules and business rules of the place where they occur. The adjustment of the trading rules by the SEHK mainly involves the order, auction and transaction rules of Hong Kong Stock Connect. Accordingly, 4 articles in the “Measures” have been revised, and the revised contents can be summarized in the following three aspects: (1) Adding the time interval of closing auction in the trading time of the Hong Kong Stock Connect trading days in accordance with the SEHK’s revision to trading rules; (2) Making clear that the order type that investors of Hong Kong Stock Connect can adopt in the time interval of closing auction is at-auction limit order; (3) Making clear the intraday quota control mechanism in the time interval of closing auction, and stipulating that the follow-up buying orders will be neither accepted nor recovered on the day when the intraday quota is used up in the time interval of closing auction. 4. What arrangements will the SSE make after revising the “Measures”? It is learnt that apart from adding the time interval of closing auction, the SEHK is planned to launch an adjustment mechanism for market fluctuations in 2016, though rules of which have not been officially released. The SSE will maintain close communication with the SEHK to make assessment on the adjustments to the businesses and rules in China’s mainland that might be related to the launch of the SEHK’s adjustment mechanism for market fluctuations. Besides, it will also join hands with securities companies to do a better job in education and publicity for investors of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Studies, Implements Requirements at CSRC Working Meeting
05 Jul 2016
On July 5, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held an expanded meeting of the SSE Party Committee to study the speech delivered on July 1 by General Secretary Xi Jinping, convey the requirements of the working meeting of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and make arrangements for its major work in the second half of 2016. Upon learning, all the attendees held that the speech made by Xi Jinping at the conference on celebrating the 95th birthday of the CPC summarized the glorious course, great achievements and historical enlightenment in the unremitting struggle of the Chinese people under the leadership of the CPC, stressed the perseverance in the cause of China’s rejuvenation led by the CPC, the socialist road with Chinese characteristics sponsored by the Chinese people under the leadership of the CPC, and the strategy of the CPC and the Chinese people rooting in China, absorbing human civilized achievements and independently realizing the country’s development, as well as put forward 8 requirements on “don’t forget our initial determination, and continue to forge ahead”. The leadership team of the SSE Party Committee was highly inspired to dedicate themselves into the Party’s financial cause. The speech made by CSRC Chairman Liu Shiyu at the working meeting, according to the CPC Central Committee’s decisions and deployments, analyzed the situation and tasks faced by the capital market, put forward the core theme of cementing the Party discipline in an all-round way and improving the ability of regulating the capital market, as well as gave directions, made requirements and offered encouragement for the upcoming work and team building of the securities regulatory system. Thus, the SSE should seriously learn, fully understand and comprehensively implement the decisions and deployments of the CPC Central Committee and the requirements at the CSRC working meeting. The SSE Party Committee held that the requirements at the CSRC working meeting put forward an array of new requirements for the working direction and priorities of the SSE currently and in the near future. The SSE should consistently carry out the requirement of cementing the Party discipline in an all-round way, consolidate the rectification results after the central inspection, vigorously sponsor the education campaign of “Studying the Party Constitution and Regulations as well as the Speeches Delivered by General Secretary Xi Jinping to Be a Qualified Party Member”, and rethink the lessons learnt from the abnormal fluctuations in the 2015 stock market. Besides, the SSE should, according to the philosophy of legal, strict and comprehensive regulation, strengthen its frontline regulatory function, initiatively and fully assume its responsibilities, and consolidate its role as the first firewall for the regulation, risk control and protection of investors’ rights and interests in the capital market, in a bid to support the supply-oriented structural reform, the economic transformation and growth, and the county’s overall strategy. Moreover, in order to fulfill its functions, the SSE should prefect its governance structure and improve its abilities and systems, so as to build an exchange featured with standardized management, quality service and hi-efficient operation. The SSE Party Committee required that all the cadres and staff should learn and understand the speeches previously delivered by Xin Jinping, carry out the deployments of the CSRC working meeting, and smoothly complete all the key work items of the SSE in the second half of this year. We should, according to the standard of excellent regulatory cadres put forward by the CSRC, be faithful, professional and responsible, unify our thinking, remember our initial determination and continue to forge ahead.

SSE Party School Unveiled to Celebrate 95th Birthday of the CPC
01 Jul 2016
On July 1, the Party School of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) was founded with its online version and App both released to celebrate the 95th birthday of the CPC. Delivering speeches at the founding ceremony were Wu Qing, SSE Party Chief and Chairman of the SSE Board of Governors, and Zhou Zhongfei, Executive Deputy President of China Executive Leadership Academy, Pudong (CELAP). Professor Huang Kun, an expert in the Party’s history at CELAP, gave a special lecture themed with “taking history as a mirror, being a qualified Party member”. It is of great significance for the establishment of the SSE Party School on the occasion of the 95th anniversary of the founding of the CPC. Over the recent years, the SSE Party Committee, under the leadership of the Party Committee of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), have earnestly implemented all the guidelines and policies of the CPC Central Committee and carried out on its own initiative the deployments of the CPC Central Committee on cementing the Party discipline in an all-round way and improving the Party's work style for honest administration. The founding of the SSE Party School is an effective measure for the SSE to further propel the education campaign of “studying the Party constitution and regulations and the speeches delivered by General Secretary Xi Jinping to be a qualified Party member”, strengthen training and education of the Party members and cadres, cement the ideological and political construction of the Party, enhance the ideological and theoretical quality and the Party spirit of the Party members and cadres, and improve the Party’s construction work. The establishment of the Party School is also the SSE’s move to vigorously rectify and cement the Party discipline according to the opinions from the Central Inspection Team. Wu said that the SSE Party School, a “smelter” to elevate the Party spirit, shoulders a crucial task to educate and train all the Party members for further improvement. The work of the Party School must be cemented. On the one hand, the Party School should be highly in accordance with the CPC Central Committee in its actions. On the other hand, the education of the Party spirit and theories should be highlighted. The education of the Party School should cover all the middle-level cadres and Party staff in 2 years and all the SSE Party members in 3 years. In the work of the SSE Party School, we should dare to innovate and practice, adapt to the capital market’s growth, and design courses needed by the SSE. Modern information technology should be fully used to educate the Party members by setting up the columns of the Party School with the SSE’s mobile communication tools and the SSE internal network, and building respectively the online version and App of the SSE Party School to regularly update and release theoretical knowledge and study notes, in a bid to help the Party members study the Party’s theories and receive the education provided by the Party School anytime and anywhere. The founding of the SSE Party School and the phase I training class to be opened next week have been supported and guided by the CSRC Party School and CELAP. As a body for training and educating the Party members, the SSE Party School assumes the fundamental tasks of studying the Party’s theories, improving the Party spirit and strengthening the Party’s construction work. Being dedicated to fostering a batch of Party members and cadres characterized by an equal stress on integrity and ability and a combination of theories and practices, it aims to help the SSE cultivate a team of quality Party members who can assume the development and reform tasks of the capital market. Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Q&A on “SSE Guidelines for Listed Company’s Press Conference on Reorganization for Listing”
01 Jul 2016
Lately, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) officially released the “SSE Guidelines for Listed Company’s Press Conference on Reorganization for Listing”. For relevant background and content, an SSE official answered the following questions raised by reporters. 1. Lately, the SSE released the “SSE Guidelines for Listed Company’s Press Conference on Reorganization for Listing” to require that a listed company involved in back-door listing should hold a press conference after releasing its reorganization scheme. What are the reasons of formulating the “Guidelines”? A: In recent years, the regulation on reorganization for listing (also known as “back-door listing” in the market) has been continuously strengthened. Lately, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) has solicited public opinions on the revised “Administrative Measures for Significant Asset Reorganization of Listed Companies” (the “Measures” for short) and further improved the identification standard and regulatory measures for reorganization for listing. The regulation on reorganization for listing has thus been more standard and scientific. Compared with ordinary significant asset reorganization, reorganization for listing, with a complex scheme, generally attracts great attention from the market, presents complicated interest game among different parties involved, and is of greater possibility of leading to illegal behaviors, thus exerting more direct influence on investors’ interest. Therefore, in-process and aftermath regulation on information disclosure should be synchronously followed up and the regulation mechanisms of media and investors should be strengthened simultaneously after the optimization in the institutional aspect. The rules and regulations on information disclosure of reorganization for listing have been put in place, but there are still some prominent problems in the actual implementation. Some listed companies were “involved in back-door listing” for many times but all failed, which resulted in “roller-coaster” trends of their share prices; before being involved in “back-door listing”, some reorganized assets showed a phenomenon of suddenly buying shares, which was highly suspected of profit delivery; some listed companies presented abnormal fluctuations in their share prices before trading suspension due to reorganization, which deviated from the relevant companies’ fundamentals; some reorganized assets were of low quality and weak profitability, but were highly valued, greatly exceeding the average level in the industry; some reorganization party made performance commitments that totally disagreed with the existing profitability of the relevant reorganized assets, bringing about great risks in realizing the commitments; and some listed companies took various methods to make detours to avoid back-door listing. The SSE will pay great attention to these problems in its late inquiry of reorganization schemes and its continuous regulation on reorganization for listing. On the other hands, the information disclosure of some listed companies can’t entirely clarify and dispel doubts of the market and investors yet, and there is great uncertainty in the carry-out of the scheme of reorganization for listing. At this point, the “Guidelines” released this time mainly aims at setting up an external communication system of reorganization for listing, so that media and investors will have an opportunity of directly facing listed companies, reorganization parties and intermediaries to raise questions and being replied on site. And its fundamental object is to further enhance pertinence and effectiveness of the information disclosure of reorganization for listing and give play to the supervision function of media and the restriction mechanism of the market more effectively. 2. What specific regulations does the “SSE Guidelines for Listed Company’s Press Conference on Reorganization for Listing” make on holding of press conference and the participants? A: For the convenience of taking part in the press conference and raising questions by media and investors and to ensure effects of the press conference, the “Guidelines” has made specific regulations on the participants, venues and methods, procedures and information disclosure of the press conference. The first is to include all parties related to reorganization for listing into the scope of attendance. To ensure that media and investors will have a comprehensive understanding of the overall situation of reorganization, it stipulates that, apart from directors and supervisors of the listed company, the actual controller of the underlying asset, the signatory and the responsible person of the intermediary must attend the press conference. Besides, the individual or institution that obtained the equity of the underlying asset in the 6 months before trading suspension and during trading suspension should also attend the press conference to clarify the doubts on suddenly buying shares and profit delivery. The second is to ensure the independence and specialty of the media present upon invitation. To ensure that the press conference can reflect the doubts of the market, the listed company is required to invite no less than 3 information disclosure media designated by the CSRC. Other journalists with the Journalist Permit issued by the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television can also attend the press conference. Besides, to fully protect the right to know of small and medium investors, representatives of China Securities Investor Services Co., Ltd. can also attend the press conference. The listed company or related parties of the underlying asset can invite experts of relevant industries and security analysts if necessary. The third is to stipulate the venue and method of holding the press conference. To ensure the authority of the press conference and for the convenience of the media and investors attending the press conference, the listed company is required to hold the press conference in the trading hall of the SSE or other approved places, and the press conference should be broadcast online. The fourth is to make each procedure strict. Before the press conference, the listed company is required to timely give a notice of the press conference in the form of a special announcement and collect in advance the problems concerned by media and investors. During the press conference, relevant parties should first introduce the real situation of reorganization for listing in an all-round way, make sure that the media raise all questions they concern, and define the shortest time the conference should last. After the press conference, the listed company should accurately disclosure the situation of the press conference and should answer the questions that have not been replied at the press conference. The fifth is to make clear the basic requirements on the replies of the questions at the press conference. To prevent inappropriate replies at the press conference, it makes clear that relevant parties involved should use a kind of descriptive language and make sure the answers are true, concise and easy to be understood and that there should be neither false and misleading statements nor false publicity such as advertising publicity and expanding publicity. 3. What measures has the SSE taken to strengthen the regulation on reorganization for listing? Reorganization for listing has been highly concerned by the market and investors, and it is also the key aspect that the SSE has regulated. Later, the SSE will, in accordance with the overall requirement of “strictly regulating by law in an all-round way”, implement the various requirements of the CSRC on strengthening the regulation on reorganization for listing, continue to strengthen the regulation on the information disclosure of reorganization for listing, and well display the function of information disclosure in restraining the “speculation on back-door listing”. First, the SSE will carefully perform its duty of regulating information disclosure and continue to conduct the regulation and inquiry that get to the root of the matter on reorganization for listing. According to the duties endowed by the CSRC, the SSE should make aftermath inquiry on the announced reorganization scheme through information disclosure. In this process, it will strictly grasp the standards of identifying reorganization for listing, carry out multi-angle inquiry on the suspected scheme of reorganization for listing from such aspects as identifying the right of control, making clear the proportion of placed-in assets and seeing whether the underlying asset conforms to the IPO conditions, and require relevant listed company and intermediary to accurately judge whether the reorganization for listing is constituted from the essence of the trading. With regard to those suspected of “making a detour of back-door listing”, it will require them to disclose the possible risks of trading termination due to being identified as the reorganization for listing; and for the reorganization schemes much doubted by the market and with great discrepancy in understanding by investors, it will directly point to the problem, make inquiry time after time, and make clear the expectation to prevent the “roller-coaster” trend of share prices after trading resumption. Second, the SSE will make classified regulation on the information disclosure and stock trading of the companies with the “back-door” features and strive to restrain speculation. The focus of the regulation is to crack down on stock price speculation with ambiguous expectation for back-door listing. And the major measures include keeping close watch on exaggerated, advertising, ambiguous, misleading and sensitive notices on stock prices, conducting inquiry that gets to the root of the matter immediately, suspending the stock trading of the companies that have not replied the inquires in time, and fully revealing the trading risks to investors. Since the beginning of this year, the SSE has imposed trading suspension for nearly 40 times. Besides, it has strengthened the efforts on regulating the abnormal trading, maintained tough stance in regulation on stock price speculation on back-door listing, and checked over 200 cases of insider trading. Third, it will strengthen the continuous regulation on back-door listing and urge the party sponsoring a back-door listing to fully fulfill performance commitments as scheduled. At present, “over estimate” and “over commitment” have been a common problem in reorganization for listing and attracted wide attention. Judging from the situation in 2015, the average value-added ratio of the underlying assets of the reorganization for listing in Shanghai was 112% and the highest ratio nearly approached 10 times. Meanwhile, there is an increasing trend of the “failure” of performance commitments during merger, acquisition and reorganization. Among these cases, some reorganization parties have not fulfilled the compensation obligation according to their former commitments, but alleviated and even avoided the compensation through such substitute methods as changing the compensation methods and extending the compensation time, which has impaired the legitimate rights and interest of small and medium investors. To effectively contain this phenomenon, the SSE has focused on strengthening the continuous regulation on companies involved in back-door listing. First, it has guarded from the beginning and regarded “over estimate” and “over commitment” as key items to be inquired after the reorganization scheme; second, it has paid close attention to implementation and checked the promised performance and performance compensation one by one after the release of the annual reports; third, it has kept an eye on any change and, according to relevant replies of the CSRC, required that the reorganization party should not change its commitments. For those maliciously avoiding the commitments and compensation, the SSE will take regulatory measures in time and propose the securities regulatory bureau to inspect on site.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

WFE Board Meeting Held at SSE
22 Jun 2016
Sponsored by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), the meetings of the board of directors and the working committee of the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) were held on June 21 and 22 in Shanghai. Yang Xiong, Mayor of Shanghai, met with the member representatives of the WFE board of directors. Liu Shiyu, Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), delivered a speech at the luncheon. The WFE, a global industry association of exchanges and one of the most important organizations for the worldwide exchanges, boasts high authority in the international securities industry. Currently, it has had a total of 64 exchange members in the world. Officially joining in the WFE in 2002, the SSE, the only exchange that is a director of the WFE board of directors in China’s mainland, has been elected as the director for 4 consecutive times since 2006. During the meetings, executives of 15 global exchanges, including NASDAQ, CME, CBOE, SIX Swiss Exchange, National Stock Exchange of India, Korea Exchange, Bolsa de Valores de Colombia, Japan Exchange Group and Bourse de Luxembourg, met at the SSE to compare notes on new development trends of the global capital market and win-win cooperation among international exchanges. Liu Shiyu said that 2016 is the 1st year for the 13th five-year plan period, which is critical for China to build a moderately prosperous society in an all-round way. During the period, the capital market will assume a new historically important mission and face many good opportunities for its growth. The Chinese capital market will attach more importance to legal construction, better serve the supply-oriented structural reform, boost the transformation and upgrading of the real economy, control and solve economic and financial risks, and further protect the legitimate rights and interests of investors. Liu added that apart from providing a trading platform for the market, what’s more challenging for a stock exchange is to perform its frontline regulatory function on the market. The CSRC will vigorously support the further opening-up and international cooperation of China’s exchanges to help them improve their abilities in building trading and service platforms, regulating the market and protecting investors’ rights and interests. Wu Qing, Chairman of SSE Board of Governors, said in his welcome speech that since its establishment, the SSE has highly focused on opening-up and international cooperation of the securities market, for example, building the B-share market, opening up to QFIIs and RQFIIs, and in recent years establishing the Shanghai-HK Stock Connect by cooperation with Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEx) and establishing in Frankfurt the RMB-denominated products trading platform with Deutsche Borse. The SSE hoped to further communicate and cooperate with its peers of the WFE for common growth. The WFE board meeting held this time is one of the most important meetings on the global capital market that have been held in China’s mainland in recent years. As the Chinese capital market has steadily elevated its status in the world, we have seen more integrated and coordinated development of the Chinese and global markets. It is our common mission in the future to jointly boost the sound growth of the global financial market and fuel the exchanges to better serve the real economy. Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Cancels Prior Application for Suspension, Exemption of Information Disclosure
30 May 2016
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) released the “Business Guidelines for Suspension and Exemption of Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure” (the “Business Guidelines” for short) on May 30, 2016. Its main content is cancelling the system of prior application for the business of suspension and exemption of information disclosure, which is changed into information disclosure obligors making their own judgments prudently according to the standards and the SSE carrying out in-process and aftermath regulation. The “Business Guidelines” will come into effect on June 10, 2016. As mentioned in the “SSE Stock Listing Rules”, listed companies and relevant information disclosure obligors shall, according to the rules, disclose information in a timely and fair manner and ensure that the disclosed information is true, accurate and complete. At the same time, regarding some special cases, the “SSE Stock Listing Rules” sets the system of suspension and exemption of information disclosure. Advancing regulatory transformation continuously, cancelling prior application for suspension and exemption of information disclosure According to an SSE official, changing the current prior application for suspension and exemption of information disclosure to the in-process and aftermath regulation by formulating the “Business Guidelines”, the SSE mainly considered the following two factors: The first factor is to advance the regulatory transformation in information disclosure. With the advancement of the regulatory transformation in information disclosure such as the direct channel for information disclosure, listed companies have continued to strengthen their sense of responsibility and self-management capabilities in information disclosure. As a conventional business for listed companies, the suspension and exemption of information disclosure has been in operation for years. According to statistics, more than 90% of the applications for suspension or exemption of information disclosure met the rules and were approved, so there is limited necessity for prior examination. Therefore, from the perspective of regulation, the time has been ripe to cancel the system of prior application for suspension and exemption of information disclosure through the formulation of business guidelines. The second factor is to further standardize the SSE’s self-regulatory behaviors. In practice, a small number of the issues for which listed companies submit their prior applications for suspension or exemption of information disclosure are likely to be sensitive to some extent. Therefore, the SSE changes the prior application into in-process and aftermath regulation, in a bid to further standardize its behaviors in regulating the information disclosure of listed companies and prevent regulators from getting in touch with sensitive information in advance. Requiring listed companies to set up relevant systems and strictly manage suspension and exemption issues While cancelling the stipulation of prior application, the “Business Guidelines” requires that listed companies should strictly manage the issues for the suspension and exemption of information disclosure, make prudent judgments, and set up the relevant internal management systems, so as to specify internal review procedures for the issues for the suspension and exemption of information disclosure. After being discussed and approved by the companies’ directorates, the internal management systems shall be disclosed on the SSE website. In addition, the “Business Guidelines” also stipulates the responsibility of information disclosure obligors for confidentiality. Establishing the regulatory mechanism and intensifying in-process and aftermath regulation After cancelling the procedure of prior application, a small number of companies may possibly abuse the procedures of suspension and exemption to avoid the obligation of information disclosure that should be fulfilled. In this regard, the SSE will, according to the “Business Guidelines”, take relevant in-process and aftermath regulatory measures: firstly, the SSE will enhance the in-process regulation. If the information with its disclosure suspended or exempted is leaked, or rumors stir in the market, the listed company will be urged to timely verify relevant circumstances and disclose them to the public; secondly, the SSE will intensify aftermath sanctions. Disciplinary actions or regulatory measures will be timely adopted for those abusing the suspension and exemption procedures. The SSE official added that after the release of the “Business Guidelines”, the way of listed companies handling the businesses of suspension and exemption of information disclosure will be changed. On this account, to facilitate the understanding and implementation of the listed companies, the SSE has analyzed the problems that the listed companies will possibly encounter in handling the business of suspension and exemption of information disclosure, and formulated and released the Q&A on relevant issues for the reference of the listed companies.    

FAQs on the Guidelines of Shanghai Stock Exchange on Stock Suspension and Resumption of Trading for Listed Companies Planning for Material Events
27 May 2016
Recently, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has released the Guidelines of Shanghai Stock Exchange on Stock Suspension and Resumption of Trading for Listed Companies Planning for Material Events (referred to as the Guidelines hereinafter). SSE has provided answers to the following questions regarding the background and main contents of the Guidelines. 1. Question: SSE previously issued relevant notices and guidelines on stock suspension and resumption of trading to regulate listed companies’ planning for non-public offerings and major asset reorganizations. What are the main considerations behind the recent release of the Guidelines? Answer: In recent years, SSE’s scheme for stock suspension and resumption of trading has been improved continuously. In 2012, SSE lifted routine stock suspensions for unusual share price movement notices and shareholder meetings. The number of stock suspensions dropped by approximately 70% accordingly. Not long ago, the number of stock suspensions increased, mainly due to increasingly active M&A and asset reorganization as well as refinancing activities, where stock suspension plays the roles in ensuring fair information disclosure, preventing unusual share price movements, preventing insider trading and locking in stock offering prices. To clarify standards and requirements for stock suspension and resumption of trading for non-public offerings, M&A and asset reorganizations, SSE issued around January 2015 the Notice on Stock Suspension and Resumption of Trading to Regulate Listed Companies Planning for Non-Public Offerings and Related Events and the Guidelines on Listed Companies’ Material Information Disclosure and Stock Suspension and Resumption of Trading for Major Asset Reorganizations. The aforementioned two business rules have been well implemented. Currently, suspension duration for SSE-listed companies planning for non-public offering has been controlled within one month; that for 90% of stock suspensions for major asset reorganization has been controlled within three months. Most cases exceeding three months of suspension have got administrative approval in advance. The few companies suspended for over five months have usually experienced unprecedented major events. For companies suspended for other issues, the duration has stayed within 10 days. The market discipline for prudentially filing suspension and strictly controlling suspension duration has been formed. However, in practice, situations such as suspension at will, suspension for too long and insufficient information disclosure during suspension still exist, which calls for improvement of relevant suspension and resumption mechanisms. On the institutional level, listed companies’ right to suspend trading and investors’ right to trade shall be better balanced. In particular, issues such as how to transfer between different types of suspensions, how to aggregate the duration of suspensions, how to determine the reasonable maximum suspension duration, and how to implement phased information disclosure during suspensions need to be broken down to details. The newly released Guidelines are formulated based on summarizing and evaluating the above-mentioned conditions, as an improved and consolidated version of the two past rules. After the release of the Guidelines, SSE’s standards for stock suspension and resumption of trading will be more integrated and consistent, with more comprehensive requirements. This will facilitate listed companies in filing applications for stock suspension and resumption of trading. It should be noted that the Guidelines combine provisions on non-public offerings and major asset reorganizations, hence the Notice on Stock Suspension and Resumption of Trading to Regulate Listed Companies Planning for Non-Public Offerings and Related Events and Chapter 3 of the Guidelines on Listed Companies’ Material Information Disclosure and Stock Suspension and Resumption of Trading for Major Asset Reorganizations will be abolished. 2、Question: During the unusual market volatility in 2015, it came to the attention of both the domestic and overseas investors that the listed companies flocked to suspend their stocks and resume trading later on. Has the newly released Guidelines provided certain rules for stock suspension and resumption of trading during unusual market volatility? Answer: Early July 2015 witnessed unusual stock market volatility, during which quite a few listed companies flocked to apply for stock suspension. This resulted to the increase in stock suspensions of listed companies in a relatively short period of time. These stock suspensions were the same as the stock suspensions under ordinary market circumstances in that the suspension applications were filed by the listed companies to the Exchange based on their own decisions. However, the difference lies in that the ordinary stock suspensions are to ensure fair information disclosure while the massive extraordinary stock suspensions last July were to avoid and prevent share price slump in a short period of time and the risks associated with. In general, the aforementioned massive stock suspensions taking place under unusual market circumstances were based on the existing stock trading and market liquidity risk management systems, and therefore, were of certain uniqueness. SSE hereby releases the Guidelines to curb stock suspensions at will and to regulate suspensions. In particular, Article 9 provides that should extreme circumstances arise during securities trading, the Shanghai Stock Exchange can stop accepting the stock suspension applications by listed companies based on the decisions by China Securities Regulatory Commission or on actual market conditions, so as to maintain trading continuity and market liquidity as well as to protect investors’ right to trade. The objective of this article is to better align the ordinary needs of listed companies to suspend stock trading with the requirement to maintain market order. 3、Question: The listed companies have to consider investors’ right to trade when filing applications for stock suspension. Do the Guidelines have any requirements in this regard? Answer: Stock suspension and resumption of trading is a common category of Exchange business upon the application by listed companies. In general, it is a basic right entitled to listed companies. It has such functions as ensuring investors’ fair access to information, prevention of insider trading and prevention of unusual stock price movements. However, the right to suspend and/or resume stock trading should be carefully exercised but not abused, for it has direct impact on investors’ right to trade and on market order. Therefore, the Guidelines have reinforced the obligatory prudence required of listed companies and of other related parties while satisfying the basic needs of listed companies to suspend stock trading. As seen from practice, the regulation of listed companies’ stock suspension and resumption of trading, especially the duration of stock suspension, requires of the obligatory prudence and compliance not only of listed companies, but also of actual controllers, major shareholders, directors, supervisors and senior management personnel as well as financial advisers. In accordance, the Guidelines have clearly set that listed companies should carefully exercise their right to suspend stock trading, and that application for stock suspension shall never exempt their confidentiality obligation. In addition, the Guidelines also provides that listed companies, shareholders, actual controllers, directors, supervisors and senior management personnel shall all fulfill their duties and obligations to ensure that the suspension duration stays within the required period; intermediaries including but not limited to financial advisers, sponsors and accounting firms shall accelerate their relevant conducts so as not to delay the resumption. 4、Question: What adjustments and improvements have been made in the Guidelines, compared with the previous provisions? Answer: Compared with the previous provisions for suspension and resumption of trading, the Guidelines have made adjustments and improvements in the following three areas. First, the coverage of suspension regulation has been expanded. Listed companies have many types of business that involve stock suspension and resumption of trading, other than major asset reorganization and non-public offerings. Those types of business include planning of change of controlling rights, purchase or sale of assets, as well as signing major contracts. The handling of stock suspension and resumption of trading for these events has certain standards in practice to abide by. However, those standards have not been publicized in the form of rules, and are thus inconvenient for listed companies to implement. The Guidelines have included these contents and clarified corresponding standards for stock suspension. Second, suspension duration has been strictly controlled. The Guidelines have clearly stipulated the durations for various categories of suspensions. For planning of major asset reorganization, the suspension duration cannot exceed 3 months in principle, or 5 months for consecutive plans of reorganization after suspension; for planning of non-public offering, the suspension duration cannot exceed 1 month in principle; for planning of change of controlling rights, of purchase or sale of assets, of overseas investments that necessitates the decision by the general meeting of shareholders, and of signing major contracts, the suspension duration cannot exceed 10 trading days in principle. Besides, the Guidelines have specified the conditions and requirements for extension of suspension. In addition, the Guidelines have clarified that for suspension applications based on planning for material events or on non-public offering that, later on, turn into major asset reorganization, the suspension duration will be aggregated, dating from the start of suspension. Companies that change the target for reorganization during suspension should also resume trading within the specified time frame. After 3 months since the day to start suspension for major asset reorganization, they cannot change the target for reorganization to extend suspension. Third, requirements for information disclosure during suspension and procedures for suspension extension have been specified. In the case of planning for major asset reorganization, which results to a relatively long suspension, the Guidelines have further clarified the specific contents to be disclosed along the timeline, with a monthly interval. Listed companies have to disclose in time the transaction progress at major points in time during major asset reorganization, so as to facilitate the understanding of investors about the reorganization progress and to set pressure on the listed companies and relevant parties to accelerate the reorganization. At the same time, the Guidelines have considered the internal decision-making procedures of listed companies, including board meetings and general meetings of shareholders, as mandatory if the companies intend to extend the suspension. Those considerations are based on the characteristics and planning progression of major asset reorganization, non-public offering, planning of change of controlling rights, and purchase or sale of assets. Additionally, the Guidelines have provided that interested parties including board members and shareholders should avoid voting in order to fully ensure the rights of small and medium-sized investors in the decision-making of stock suspension and resumption of trading. 5、What measures will SSE take in strengthening the regulation of stock suspension and resumption of trading and of relevant information disclosure? Answer: The Guidelines have stressed the standards for regulating stock suspension and resumption of trading, and clarified the regulatory measures to curb inappropriate suspension and abuse of suspension. This is in line with SSE’s sustained efforts since the second half of last year to strengthen supervision on those long-time suspensions. Next step, SSE will strengthen the combination of ad-hoc, in-process and post-hoc regulation. From the ad-hoc prospective, SSE will continue to uphold the principle of “One Letter per Company”. To be specific, SSE will clearly highlight the standards of suspension and other requirements, in the form of regulatory work letters, to the company that intends to suspend its stock, and to the one that has suspended its stock for nearly 3 months. In this way, the companies can coordinate with regulatory agencies, transaction counterparts and intermediaries to manage the progress of reorganization and re-financing, and can thus resume trading on time. During the event, SSE will review the applications by listed companies to extend stock suspension, based on the stipulated conditions and requirements. SSE will also urge the listed companies to disclose information during suspension to enable investors’ access to the information. From the post –hoc prospective, SSE will examine the suspensions by reviewing the conformity, truthfulness and completeness of information disclosure by companies before and after the resumption from a lengthy suspension, and will apply disciplinary sanctions on listed companies and responsible personnel if the suspensions are abused or inappropriately adopted without valid reasons.

CPC Central Committee, State Council Makes Appointment, Dismissal for SSE Officials
20 May 2016
On May 20, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held a cadres’ conference to declare the decisions of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council: Comrade Wu Qing holds the position of Party Chief of the SSE, and is nominated for Chairman of Board of Governors of the SSE (at the level of Deputy Minister); Comrade Gui Minjie, due to his age, no long holds the positions of Party Chief and Chairman of Board of Governors of the SSE. According to the legal procedures, Wu Qing is elected Chairman of Board of Governors of the SSE at the 65th meeting of the 3rd Board of Governors. Liu Shiyu, Party Chief and Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), says at the above conference that the adjustment to the major officials of the SSE fully shows the high importance attached by the CPC Central Committee and the State Council to the construction of the capital market and the building of the SSE leadership. He adds that the SSE should seriously study and implement the requirements put forward at the 18th National Congress of the CPC, the 3rd, 4th and 5th Plenary Sessions of the 18th CPC Central Committee, and the speeches delivered by General Secretary Xi Jinping, consciously keep consistency with the Central Party Committee with Xi Jinping as General Secretary in ideology, politics and action, and further cement the awareness of politics, general situation, core issues and coordination. The SSE should, according to the deployments of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council and the requirements of the CSRC Party Committee, continue to seriously and consistently rectify for the central inspection work, vigorously sponsor the education campaign of “Studying the Party Constitution Regulations and the Speeches Delivered by General Secretary Xi Jinping to Be A Qualified Party Member”, strengthen the Party’s construction and implement the deployments of cementing the Party discipline in an all-round way and continuously propel the building of the Party's work style and of a clean government. Besides, the SSE should bear its mission in mind, perfect itself, attach importance to the main line of the supply-oriented structural reform, serve the 5 key tasks of “reducing production capacities, decreasing inventories, deleveraging, lowering costs and improving deficiencies”, earnestly fuel all the work items, give full play to the role of the market mechanism and serve the real economy’ growth. Finally, it should strengthen its self-regulation and frontline regulation, enhance the quality of information disclosure, and build a fair, transparent and honest market, in a bid to protect investors’ legitimate rights and interest.   Source: CSRC Website (www.csrc.gov.cn)

CEINEX Gets off to a Sound Start
18 May 2016
  Marking the six-month operation of China Europe International Exchange (CEINEX), the forum themed “Cooperation and Development of Global Financial Market under Backdrop of RMB Internationalization” sponsored by CEINEX was held at the trading floor of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) on May 18, 2016. Officials of the SSE, the China Financial Futures Exchange (CFFEX) and CEINEX delivered speeches at the forum. CEINEX, an exchange jointly-established by the SSE, Deutsche Borse Group and the CFFEX in Frankfurt, Germany and the first nationwide joint-venture trading platform established by the domestic exchange in a foreign country, aims to build a trading platform of offshore RMB-denominated financial instruments in Europe. Since its opening in November 2015, CEINEX has got off to a good start with a continuously sound market growth in trading volume, the participation of more institutions and the rudimentary functioning of the platform’s role. About 200 products, including ETFs and bonds for the most part, haven been traded on CEINEX since its official running. By the end of April 2016, the total trading volume of the products sold on CEINEX had reached EUR0.337 billion (about RMB2.4 billlion), with the daily average trading volume up to about EUR3 million (about RMB21.50 million); the trading volume of ETFs had reached about EUR0.333 billion (about RMB2.378 billion), accounting for about 98% of the total. Noticeably, the RMB-denominated products had been accepted by the market, with its trading volume up to RMB0.218 billion, accounting for 9.1% of the total. The brisk transactions of the CBK CCBI RQFII Money Market UCITS ETF, the RMB-denominated product co-issued by Commerzbank and CCB International, have registered growing interest in the RMB-denominated products in the market. Next, CEINEX will continuously diversify spot products and propel the research in and preparations for derivatives. With regard to the former, apart from consistently perfecting the ETF products system and boosting more financial institutions and enterprises worldwide to issue RMB-denominated bonds on CEINEX, priority will also be given to attract China’s quality enterprises to go public on CEINEX, fuel the cooperation between Sino-German advanced manufacturing industries as well as the transformation and upgrading of China’s manufacturing industry, and serve the “2025: Made in China” strategy and the “(Silk Road Economic) Belt and (the 21st-Century Maritime Silk) Road” initiative. As regards the latter, CEINEX will, according to the market demands, provide portfolio allocation instruments and risk management ones of Chinese financial assets for international investors by attaching importance to developing futures and option products based on A-share ETFs and A-share market indices. The forum drew nearly 200 guests from a total of 127 institutions covering securities, fund and futures companies and listed companies.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Q&A on Delisting of *ST Boyuan Shares
21 Mar 2016
On March 21, 2016, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), in accordance with the review opinions of the SSE Listing Examination Committee, determined to terminate the listing of the shares of Zhuhai Boyuan Investment Co., Ltd. (“*ST Boyuan” or the Company). An official of the SSE answered the following questions concerning the delisting of the Company’s shares. Q1. *ST Boyuan is the first company that has been delisted in the securities market due to illegal disclosure of important information. Can you explain its delisting process briefly? A: *ST Boyuan is the first company that has been delisted in the securities market for illegal disclosure of important information after the implementation of “Some Opinions on Reforming, Improving, and Strictly Implementing Delisting System for Listed Companies” (the “Opinions”) issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) in 2014. In summary, its delisting has mainly experienced the following three stages. In the 1st stage, *ST Boyuan was transferred to the public security organ according to law after administrative investigation. On June 17, 2014, the CSRC opened an investigation on *ST Boyuan as it was suspected of illegal information disclosure. On March 26, 2015, it was transferred to the public security organ according to law by the CSRC as it was suspected of committing the crimes of illegally disclosing and non-disclosing important information and forging and altering financial notes. On March 27, 2015, the CSRC held a press conference to brief relevant information on the Company’s illegal behaviors and the transfer to the public security organ. According to the administrative investigation, *ST Boyuan’s illegal act was very serious. The committed capital of RMB380 million related to the equity division reform’s performance performed and paid by its controlling shareholder Zhuhai Huaxintai Investment Co., Ltd., as announced on April 29, 2011, has not been actually fulfilled. To cover this fact, from 2011 to 2014, the Company forged banker’s acceptance bills many times, fabricated such major transactions as buying banker’s acceptance bills, replacing notes, discounting and paying the advanced payment with the committed capital related to the equity division reform’s performance, disclosed the regular report with seriously false financial information, and falsely increased such financial information as its assets, revenue and profit. In the 2nd stage, *ST Boyuan shares’ listing was suspended. After the Company was transferred to the public security organ by the CSRC, on May 25, 2015, the SSE, in accordance with relevant rules of the “Opinions” and the “Stock Listing Rules”, determined to suspend the listing of the Company’s shares. Before that, the Company’s shares received a risk alert of delisting on March 31, 2015 and had been traded on the Risk Alert Board for 30 trading days. In the 3rd stage, the SSE made the decision of delisting *ST Boyuan shares. According to the arrangement and requirement of the CSRC on relevant work, the SSE held the Examination Meeting of the Listing Examination Committee on March 21, 2016, and all the 7 committee members present were seniors in the fields of law and accounting outside the SSE. The attending members, after discussion, all voted to agree to the delisting of *ST Boyuan shares. On the same day, the SSE made the decision of delisting *ST Boyuan shares according to the review opinions of the SSE Listing Examination Committee and announced the decision to the public. Q2. What are the main foundations for the delisting of *ST Boyuan? A: One important initiative of the CSRC in the new round of delisting system reform in 2014 was to include illegal disclosure of important information that has strong market response, severely impairs investor’s rights and interests and has been commonly agreed by all parties, into the delisting situation. After the issuing of the “Opinions”, the SSE revised the “Stock Listing Rules” accordingly and made clear that being transferred to the public security organ for the illegal disclosure of important information will be a specific situation to impose compulsory delisting on a company. And the main foundations for delisting the shares of *ST Boyuan after it was transferred to the public security organ due to the illegal disclosure of important information are as follow: 1. According to the administrative investigation of the CSRC, the Company was involved in serious illegal acts. According to the investigation of the CSRC, the Company was involved in serious illegal acts. In terms of its purpose, the Company forged banker’s acceptance bills to cover the fact that its committed capital related to the equity division reform’s performance was actually not fully fulfilled, which led to the falsely inflated deposit in bank and shareholders’ equity of over RMB380 million in its annual report of 2011; in terms of its means, from 2011 to 2014, the Company forged banker’s acceptance bills many times, fabricated note discount and replacement trading, and used false bank deposit receipts and false banker’s acceptance bills to enter into account book many times; in terms of its amount, from 2011 to 2014, the Company falsely increased its assets, liabilities, revenue and profits in its regular reports, and the amount of money involved was huge; in terms of its consequence, the Company’s net asset as it announced in its 2010 annual report was RMB-362 million and that number maintained a negative value for 4 consecutive fiscal years from 2010 to 2013 after retroactive adjustment. The above illegal acts have been announced to the public by the CSRC through a press conference, and the Company has been transferred to the public security organ accordingly. 2. Delisting the Company’s shares conforms to the relevant procedures and requirements as stipulated in the “Opinions” of the CSRC and the “Stock Listing Rules” of the SSE. On the one hand, delisting the Company’s shares conforms to the relevant procedures and requirements as stipulated in the “Opinions” of the CSRC and the “Stock Listing Rules” of the SSE. The “Opinions” requires implementation of delisting within a prescribed period on the listed company with listing in suspension due to its major illegal behaviors, and Article 7 of the “Opinions” stipulates that “implementation of delisting within a prescribed period” refers to that “A stock exchange shall make the decision of terminating the listing and trading of the company’s shares within one year after the CSRC makes a decision of administrative penalty or a decision of transferring it to the public security organ”. Accordingly, Item 13 of Article 14.3.1 in the “Stock Listing Rules” stipulates that if the shares listing of the company, which has been transferred to the public security organ by the CSRC as being suspected of illegal disclosure of important information, “has been suspended and has not been resumed within the prescribed period”, the SSE shall make a decision of delisting its shares. Article 14.3.13 also stipulates that the SSE shall, “within 15 trading days before the expiration of 12 months” from the day when the CSRC decides to transfer it to the public security organ, make a decision of whether delisting its shares. It has been nearly 12 months since *ST Boyuan was transferred to the public security organ by the CSRC on March 26, 2015, and its shares are still in the suspension of listing. Therefore, the SSE’s decision of delisting the shares of *ST Boyuan conforms to the above stipulations and requirements. On the other hand, the Company did not possess the conditions of resuming listing when the SSE made the decision of delisting. Article 8 in the “Opinions” stipulates that the company, which has been transferred to the public security organ due to the illegal disclosure of important information, with its shares listing suspended, can apply to the stock exchange for resuming its listing after it has “fully corrected the illegal behaviors, timely replacing relevant responsible persons and appropriately undertaken the civil liability for compensation”. Article 14.2.7 in the “Stock Listing Rules” of the SSE further details the above stipulation, and “completing the responsibility investigation for the illegal disclosure of important information” is one of the requirements for “fully correcting the illegal behaviors”. However, this requirement is not met as the judicial organ has not made any effective adjudication on the *ST Boyuan case. Besides, the Company has neither corrected the illegal facts that have been ascertained in the administrative inspection, nor made any arrangement on undertaking possible civil compensation. To sum up, the current decision of delisting the shares of *ST Boyuan conforms to the stipulations of the “Opinions” and the “Stock Listing Rules” of the SSE, fully demonstrates the CSRC’s steadfast determination of never tolerating any major illegal behavior, and shows the SSE’s fundamental attitude of strictly implementing the delisting system. Clearing the companies with illegal disclosure of important information out of the securities market will help to remind listed companies of fulfilling the information disclosure duty by law, better protect the legitimate rights and interests of investors, and promote the continuously stable and sound development of the capital market. Q3. After *ST Boyuan was transferred to the public security organ and the delisting procedure was launched, what regulatory work has the SSE done? A: After *ST Boyuan was transferred to the public security organ on March 26, 2015, the SSE timely launched the delisting procedure on the Company’s shares. From the time the Company received a risk alert of delisting to the time its listing was suspended, the SSE kept urging the Company to fully unveil the delisting risk, so as to protect the rights and interests of small and medium-sized investors. And the SSE has done the following regulatory work in 4 aspects according to the situation of *ST Boyuan and the features of the delisting mechanism for major illegal acts: The first is to strengthen the proactive regulation on the information disclosure of the listed company. After the Company was transferred to the public security organ, the SSE regulation department for listed companies suspended the business of direct channel for information disclosure against the Company according to the rules and made proactive examination on its announcements, given that the delisting procedure was to be initiated and that whether the information of Company’s announcements is accurate and complete is of great importance for investors to make rational judgment. From the time the Company received the risk alert of delisting to the time its listing was suspended, the SSE strengthened its efforts on examining such issues as the Company’s annual report of 2014 and the assets donation by its shareholders which were released by the Company, and required the Company to supplement and improve the major information concerned by the investors and make corresponding risk alerts. The second is to earnestly preserve the trading order during the risk warning period. During the risk-warning trading period, the shares of *ST Boyuan presented great price fluctuation, high turnover rate, and a strong speculation atmosphere. Thus, the SSE strengthened its market supervision efforts, warned and handled abnormal trading and illegal trading in time, and revealed the trading information at appropriate time as needed, which played a positive role in reminding investors of rational trading. The third is to keep urging the Company to fully reveal the delisting risk. After *ST Boyuan entered into the delisting procedure, its shareholders and the market were much concerned about the changes and the delisting progress of the Company. To better satisfy the investors’ right to know, the SSE urged the Company to strengthen revealing the risk and increase the risk disclosure frequency. From the time it received the risk alert of delisting to the time its listing was suspended, the Company released over 40 risk alert announcements. Meanwhile, the Company was required to announce its replies to investors’ questions once a month. The fourth is to handle the illegal behaviors of the Company and relevant responsible persons in time. When *ST Boyuan released its 2014 annual report and the report of the 1st quarter of 2015, its Board of Directors, Board of Supervisors, directors, supervisors and senior managers all stated that they cannot guarantee the authenticity, accuracy and integrity of relevant contents, which attracted wide attention from the market. And the SSE urged the Company to complete rectification and made public censure on the Company and its relevant responsible persons. Besides, the SSE timely made trading restriction measures in time on Zhuang Chunhong, the largest shareholder of the Company, for her illegal behavior of shareholding lessening during the period of delisting risk alert, and circulated a notice of criticism on her. Q4. It is learnt that *ST Boyuan has applied to the court for reorganization, which has not been accepted yet. Can you briefly explain the relation between the reorganization and the delisting of the Company? A: Judging from relevant rules, reorganization and delisting are institutional arrangements with different focused objectives and mutually independent procedures. In terms of delisting for illegal disclosure of important information, the “Opinions” and the “Stock Listing Rules” have set clear procedures and requirements. And the decision of delisting the shares of *ST Boyuan by law will not be affected by whether the Company will be reorganized or not. As for the information disclosed by the Company, it applied to the court for reorganization on August 18, 2015. As its application has not been accepted yet, it has not entered into the formal legal procedures. There has no substantial progress in the 7 months after its application for bankruptcy reorganization, and there is no specific binding arrangement for the reorganization. Besides, the Company previously released the announcement on assets donation by its shareholders, but it has no necessary connection with its delisting due to illegal disclosure of important information. And *ST Boyuan has made it clear in its relevant announcement. Q5. After the decision is made to terminate the listing of *ST Boyuan, its shares will start trading in the delisting arrangement period. Then, what issues should the investors pay attention to in their participation? A: The SSE announced on March 21, 2016 the decision to terminate the listing of the shares of *ST Boyuan. According to Article 14.3.20 in the “Stock Listing Rules”, *ST Boyuan will enter the delisting arrangement period on March 29, and its shares will be traded for 30 trading days. The delisting arrangement period is the trading arrangement made to facilitate the withdrawal of the investors of a company whose delisting has been determined. Before participating in the shares trading in the delisting arrangement period, the investors should be familiar with the “SSE Detailed Rules for Carrying out Business in Delisting Arrangement Period (Revised in 2015)” and carefully read the relevant announcements issued by *ST Boyuan. Specifically, the investors should especially learn about the special arrangements for trading mechanism, comply with the requirements for investor suitability management, participate in investment rationally and pay attention to the trading risks. Now, the contents in these two aspects are described as follows. First, the special arrangements for the shares and their trading in the delisting arrangement period. The contents mainly include: (1) The company’s stock abbreviation will be changed from “*ST Boyuan” to “Delisted Boyuan”, with its price limit at 10%; (2) The trading period is 30 trading days, during which the whole-day trading suspension days are not included in the delisting arrangement period, but the trading suspension time shall not be more than 5 trading days accumulatively; (3) The SSE will announce on a daily basis the names of the top 5 members’ securities business departments in terms of the accumulative amounts of purchase and sale in each trading day, and their respective amounts of purchase and sale; (4) *ST Boyuan is not allowed to plan or carry out significant assets reorganization during the delisting arrangement period. Second, the requirements that the investors shall comply with when participating in the trading during the delisting arrangement period. The main contents include: (1) When buying the shares with delisting arrangement, individual investors shall have more than 2 years of experience in trading of shares and hold the assets of RMB0.5 million or above (excluding securities and capital financed through margin trading and securities lending) in their securities accounts and capital accounts opened in their own names; (2) Individual investors not meeting the above stipulation can only sell their shares with delisting arrangement. (3) Investors buying shares with delisting arrangement for the first time shall sign the “Letter of Risk Disclosure of Shares with Delisting Arrangement”; (4) Relevant business rules of the SSE shall be abided by, and abnormal trading behaviors shall not be performed. Q6. What are the requirements of information disclosure for *ST Boyuan during the delisting arrangement period? A: Before the share are delisted, *ST Boyuan is still a company listed on the SSE. During the delisting arrangement period, the Company shall still, according to the provisions of the relevant laws, regulations and business rules and the relevant regulatory requirements, timely and impartially disclose the temporary and periodical announcements, and ensure the authenticity, accuracy and completeness of the disclosed information. The Company has not yet disclosed its annual report of 2015, and the Company’s board of directors shall ensure the fulfillment of the obligation for disclosure in the legal time limit. It should also be noted that the SSE has, according to law, made the decision to terminate the listing of the stocks of *ST Boyuan because of its illegal disclosure of significant information, and this decision has nothing to do with whether the Company has disclosed the annual report. *ST Boyuan will enter the delisting arrangement period on March 29. The Company shall, in strict accordance with the requirements of the listing rules, fully disclose the arrangements for trading in the delisting arrangement period and the risks of delisting of its shares. The specific requirements include the time for releasing the announcements on the issues for starting trading in the delisting arrangement period, the time and times for issuing the announcements of risk alert, the arrangements for transferring its stocks to the National Equities Exchange and Quotations (NEEQ) and other aspects. Q7. After being delisted, can the shares of *ST Boyuan be transferred? A: According to Article 14.3.25 in the Listing Rules, after the end of the 30 trading days for the delisting arrangement period, the SSE will delist the stocks of *ST Boyuan within 5 trading days and the listing of the stocks of the Company will be terminated. After being delisted, the shares of *ST Boyuan shall be transferred to the NEEQ, and its shareholders can transfer the shares on the NEEQ. In this aspect, Article 17 in the “Opinions” of the CSRC clearly stipulates that the shares of the companies with compulsory delisting shall be listed and transferred on the NEEQ. It should also be noted that termination of listing of the listed companies is a normal market behavior. After the listing of *ST Boyuan is terminated, although its shares will no longer be traded on the SSE market, the assets, liabilities, operation, profits and losses and other factors of the Company will not be changed for this reason. The Company does not go bankrupt nor is dissolved, and it can still operate in a normal way. The shareholders of the Company can still exercise their shareholders' rights according to law. On the part of *ST Boyuan, the Company shall, according to the requirements of Articles 14.3.27 and 14.3.28 in the “Stock Listing Rules”, engage a securities company qualified to conduct broker business (the “agent”) and sign relevant agreement with it, immediately making relevant preparations for transferring its shares to NEEQ and ensuring that its shares can be listed and transferred within 45 trading days after the delisting day. If *ST Boyuan fails to engage an agent or no agent accepts the engagement, the SSE can designate an agent for it temporarily. In addition, according to the provisions of the SSE’s “Measures for Re-listing of Delisted Companies (Revised in 2015)”, if *ST Boyuan fails to arrange for transferring its shares to NEEQ for transfer according to the SSE rules, the SSE will not accept the Company’ application for re-listing within 36 months from the day when its shares are transferred on NEEQ. Q8. After the listing of *ST Boyuan is terminated, can it be re-listed? A: After termination of the listing, if the requirements for re-listing are met, *ST Boyuan can apply to the SSE for re-listing. Basic provisions can be found in Articles 14.5.1, 14.5.2 and 14.5.3 of the “Stock Listing Rules”, and specific arrangements can also be found in the SSE’s “Measures for Re-listing of Delisted Companies (Revised in 2015)”. The requirements for re-listing mainly include three aspects. First, the time interval for applying for re-listing. According to the provisions of the “Measures on Re-listing of Delisted Companies”, when applying for re-listing after being delisted, *ST Boyuan shall submit its application for re-listing after a complete fiscal year from the day when its shares are transferred on NEEQ, that is to say, at least after the fiscal year of 2017. Second, the special conditions for the delisted companies for violating laws and regulations. They mainly include the requirements that the significant violations have been totally corrected; the persons liable for violations in disclosure of important information have been dismissed or replaced; proper arrangements have been made for the relevant civil compensations; there are no circumstances of listing suspension or termination stipulated in the “Stock Listing Rules”; and the intermediaries have conducted the verification and issued the special opinions, etc. Third, general conditions for delisted companies. They mainly include the requirements for the total share capital, distribution of shareholders, no significant violations, profiting in the recent three fiscal years, the cash flows in the recent three fiscal years, the net asset at the end of the period of the most recent fiscal year, the auditing reports of the recent three fiscal years, the company’s main businesses in the recent three years and other aspects. Q9. How will the compensations be claimed for the losses to the investors caused by the violations of *ST Boyuan? A: According to the “Some Provisions of the Supreme People's Court on Trying Cases of Civil Compensation Arising from False Statement in Securities Market”, for the losses caused to the investors by the illegal disclosure of important information of *ST Boyuan, the investors can file the civil compensation lawsuit for *ST Boyuan for the cause of the infringement by false statements. In addition, the “Opinions” and the “Stock Listing Rules” have also made arrangements for protection of the rights and interests of investors. For the companies with the listing terminated for violations in disclosing important information, considering the interest demands of small and medium-sized investors, the SSE has set “making proper arrangements for bearing civil compensations” as one of the requirements for re-listing, and only after meeting the requirement can a company possibly apply for re-listing.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Announcement on Terminating Listing of Shares of Zhuhai Boyuan
21 Mar 2016
SSE Announcement (Delisting) [2016] No. 001 Document On March 26, 2015, suspected of committing the crime of illegal information disclosure and non-disclosure of important information and the crime of forging and altering financial notes, Zhuhai Boyuan Investment Co., Ltd. (Zhuhai Boyuan) was transferred by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) to the investigation of the public security organ. Trading of its shares was thus suspended as of May 28, 2015, and so far it has not been resumed yet. On March 21, 2016, the Listing Examination Committee of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held an examination meeting, which resulted in the opinion of terminating the listing of the shares of Zhuhai Boyuan. According to the opinion, the SSE has decided to terminate the listing of the shares of the company. In line with the regulations of Articles 14.3.20, 14.3.21 and 14.3.25 in the “SSE Stock Listing Rules”, from the trading day (March 29, 2016) following the end of the five trading days after the SSE announcing this decision, trading of the shares of Zhuhai Boyuan will enter the delisting arrangement period. Within five trading days after the end of the delisting arrangement period, the SSE will delist the shares of the company, and listing of the company’s shares will be terminated. During the delisting arrangement period, Zhuhai Boyuan and the relevant obligors for information disclosure shall abide by the laws, administrative regulations, departmental rules, other normative documents, the “SSE Stock Listing Rules” and other rules of the SSE, and fulfill relevant obligations. According to the regulations of Articles 14.3.27 and 14.3.28 in the “SSE Stock Listing Rules”, Zhuhai Boyuan shall immediately make relevant preparations for the listing and transfer of its shares on the National Equities Exchange and Quotations (NEEQ), and ensure that its shares can be listed and transferred within 45 trading days from the delisting day. If Zhuhai Boyuan is against the SSE’s decision of terminating its listing, it can apply to the SSE for re-examination within 5 trading days after the release of this announcement.   Shanghai Stock Exchange March 21, 2016

SSE Introduces Green Bonds for Green Industry
14 Mar 2016
To implement the concept of “green development”, give full play to the role of the capital market in optimizing the allocation of resources and serving the real economy and support and advance the development of the ecological civilization, in recent years the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has vigorously directed the bond market to support the green industry, promoted the green bonds and boosted the green development, not only providing the demonstration and experience in new modes for the financing of the related green issuers in the field of environmental protection but also making conducive attempts in pushing forward the establishment of the green financial system. Great space for improvement in China The so-called green bonds refer to the bonds featuring the raised funds used to support the qualified projects in the green industry. Since the World Bank issued the first green bond in 2008, the international green bond market has been booming. In 2015, the total amount of the green bonds issued worldwide reached nearly US$30 billion. According to the estimates of Ernst & Young, the total amount will exceed US$100 billion in 2016. According to statistics, in 2015 the SSE completed the issuance and listing of 24 corporate bonds and asset-backed securities supporting the green and environmental protection industry, with a total of about RMB25 billion raised. The raised funds will be directly invested in the green industries supported by the national policies, such as industrial energy conservation, recycling of biomass resources, distributed energy resources, hydropower and forestry development. The representative cases include the 3-year corporate bond worth RMB500 million issued by Beijing Shenwu Environment & Energy Technology Co., Ltd., the 5-year corporate bond worth RMB1 billion issued by GCL New Energy Holdings Limited and the assets-securitized product worth RMB650 million issued by the company under China Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Group, the first of its kind in China issued by a central enterprise in the field of environmental protection. Last December, at the Paris Conference on Climate Change that drew attention from around the world, Chairman of Shenwu Group, on behalf of more than 3,000 enterprises of environmental protection in China, delivered keynote speeches at the two theme meetings on “The Path of Developing Carbon Market in China” and “Green Finance”, showcasing the “China experience” of the Chinese enterprises in tackling the inherent problem of carbon reduction in the world. Shenwu Group displayed five revolutionary and innovative energy saving technologies, which carry out efficient recycling for the low-quality energy and mineral resources and provide brand new technological paths for the development of the traditional industries such as coal, iron and steel and non-ferrous metals. GCL New Energy Holdings Limited, currently the world's largest photovoltaic material supplier, boasts plenty of experience in investing in, constructing, operating and managing large photovoltaic power stations. As the photovoltaic operation and management center of GCL Group in Suzhou, GCL New Energy Holdings Limited has its main business in research and development, production and sales of silicon wafer. Through technical innovation, its energy consumption in producing the polysilicon has been reduced by as much as 85% with the cost cut down by about 27%. Driven by the progress in the polysilicon material of the company, the photoelectric conversion efficiency of the polycrystalline battery has been increased by nearly 50%. In 2015, the SSE launched the “Harvest Energy Conservation No. 1 Assets-backed Special Program Assets-backed Securities Product”, the first product of its kind in the field of environmental protection issued by a central enterprise in China. The underlying assets of the special program are the electricity sales revenues and the responding usufruct realized in a certain period by the companies under China Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Group in operating the business of generating electricity through refuse incineration. The product will raise RMB650 million, with a planned duration of 4.5 years. The priority securities have been rated AAA, and the range for the interest rates in issuance is only from 4.26% to 5.07%, 8 to 89 base points lower than the rates of the bank credits for the same term. The SSE said that the assets-securitized products in the field of environmental protection have provided a new driving force for the sustainable development of the waste-incineration-related power generation industry. Data show that more and more cities are likely to face the situation of waste siege. In 2015, the target in the plan for the treatment size of the urban domestic rubbish disposal facilities nationwide is 513,700 tons per day, including 59% for landfill, 35% for incineration and 6% for other means. The traditional way of landfill occupies a lot of land with the pollution permeation likely to cause secondary pollution of groundwater, posing significant hidden dangers for the ecological environment in the future; the treatment method of power generation through incineration is the highest in degree of harmless disposal, heat recovery efficiency and level of utilization of land resources. According to the experience of the developed countries, the share of the treatment method of power generation through incineration is more than 90%, and there is significant space for improvement in China. Sector of green bonds to be set up Adhering to the concept of "green development" is the current world trend among the economic development models. The SSE was the earliest in China to respond to the trend and one of the earliest market institutions to participate in the cultivation of the green bond market in China. As one of the executive members of the first council of the Green Finance Committee of China Society for Finance and Banking, a domestic authoritative research institute in green finance, the SSE has taken an in-depth part in laying the foundation for China’s system of green finance. In addition, the SSE is also a member of the International Capital Market Association (ICMA), the organization coordinating the formulation of the norm for green bonds which enjoys the highest recognition internationally. It will become an observer for the ICMA norm of green bonds in the near future, and will vigorously participate in the development of the international norm for green bonds. The SSE said that to further implement the strategic decision of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council to advance the development of the ecological civilization and practice the concept of “Green Development”, in the near future the SSE will release related rules to regulate the issuance of green bonds, provide the “Green Channel” and other policy support for green bonds, issue the green bond index when the time is ripe, set up the sector of green bonds, and guide the SSE bond market to support the green industry. According to sources, a number of enterprises, including Zhejiang Provincial Energy Group Co., Ltd., are vigorously preparing for the issuance of green bonds, and the SSE is expecting for a broad space for development of its green bond market.   Source: China Securities Journal

Notice of Releasing Format Instruction on Temporary Announcement on Shareholding Increase Plan of Listed Company’s Shareholder, Director, Supervisor and Senior Manager
26 Feb 2016
All listed companies, 　　In order to urge listed companies’ standardized disclosure of hot issues in the market and enhance the effectiveness of information disclosure, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), according to laws, regulations and the “SSE Stock Listing Rules”, has newly worked out the No. 99 format instruction on temporary announcement – Announcement on Shareholding Increase Plan of Listed Company’s Shareholder, Director, Supervisor and Senior Manager and Its Progress/Result, and revised the No. 85 format instruction on temporary announcement – Announcement on Scheme of Listed Company’s Shares Repurchase and Its Progress (see attachments). The two format instructions are hereby released, and shall come into force on the date of release. 　　The full texts of the above two format instructions could be found on the "Business Guide and Procedures" sub-column under the “Laws & Regulations” column on the SSE website (www.sse.com.cn). The listed companies and relevant information disclosers are required to learn and abide by them, and complete the relevant work of information disclosure and business operation application. 　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　February 26, 2016 　　Attachments 　　1. No. 85 format instruction on temporary announcement – Announcement on Scheme of Listed Company’s Shares Repurchase 　　2. No. 99 format instruction on temporary announcement – Announcement on Shareholding Increase Plan of Listed Company’s Shareholder, Director, Supervisor and Senior Manager

SSE Releases Notice to Echo Rules on Contents and Format of Disclosure of Corporate Bonds’ Annual Report
25 Jan 2016
The China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) lately released the “Rules No. 38 on Contents and Format of Information Disclosure by Companies Publicly Issuing Securities – Contents and Format of Corporate Bonds’ Annual Report” (the Rules for short). The Rules, with 4 chapters and 51 articles, specifies an array of requirements for the contents and format of corporate bonds’ annual report. Its release is another key measure of the CSRC to carry out the “Management Measures for Issuance and Trading of Corporate Bonds” (the Measures for short), detail relevant regulations on information disclosure, and cement the in-process and aftermath regulation, which is of great significance for propelling the standardized development of the exchange-based corporate bonds market. In response to the implementation of the Rules, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently released the “Notice of Doing a Better Job for Disclosing Annual Reports of 2015 for Bond Issuers” (the Notice for short). Last year, the SSE, taking the promulgation of the Measures as an opportunity, met the requirements for the market-oriented reform in terms of pre-examination, issuance and listing of corporate bonds, and vigorously enhanced the ability of the exchange bond market in serving the real economy. In the whole year of 2015, the SSE’s bond market completed the issuance of RMB1.87 trillion bonds in total, which made it an important channel for enterprises’ directing financing. In the development of the corporate bonds market, the SSE always adheres to the development philosophy of “stressing both growth and risk control” and attaches great importance to the regulation on continuous information disclosure about corporate bonds. As a supporting system, the Notice puts forward specific requirements for the implementation of the Rules. Firstly, issuers and underwriters are required to study relevant regulations and timely formulate, submit and disclose annual reports. Secondly, specific regulations on the disclosure time and the obligor of annual report’s disclosure are given. Thirdly, issuers are urged to do a better job in their risk alert work of corporate bonds. Fourthly, other issuers publicly issuing corporate credit bonds (including enterprise bonds) should formulate and disclose annual reports pursuant to the Rules. In the future, the SSE will continuously strengthen the regulation on continuous information disclosure about corporate bonds, study and make supporting systems, further publicize and guide the market, and earnestly carry out the in-process and aftermath regulation. For the issuers of corporate bonds and relevant intermediaries which fail to fulfill the obligations of information disclosure, the SSE will take self-regulatory measures and investigate the relevant obligators according to law.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Issues about Strengthening Listed Companies’ Business Operation Management
21 Jan 2016
All listed companies, Business operation, one of the fundamental parts for the business of the listed companies’ information disclosure, exerts influence on the safe and orderly trading of securities. Some listed companies’ secretaries to directorates and information disclosure personnel, who did not completely grasp the business operation rules, have often wrongly registered announcement categories and inaccurately filled in business application forms, and even omitted applications for trading suspension or resumption, which have led to some operational hazards. In order to further standardize the listed companies’ business operation and guarantee the operational safety, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), in light of the existing problems in the practices, has worked out the “FAQs about Listed Companies’ Business Operation Applications” for the listed companies. Some important aspects in their business operation applications and the relevant notes are hereby specified as follows: 1. The awareness of operational risk control should be further cemented. Any listed company, as an applicant of business operation and meanwhile the first responsible person for the risk control of its business operation, should take effective measures against incorrect data on any forms or omitted forms, perfect its internal information disclosure management system, urge its information disclosure personnel to seriously learn all the business rules, and strengthen the risk control of business operation applications. 2. A business operation application should be accurately handled pursuant to the SSE rules and requirements. Some companies replaced business applications with announcements, that is, they failed to separately submit their business application forms while submitting and disclosing their business operation announcements. Any listed company, for handling business operation issues, should submit relevant business application forms and ensure the consistency between the forms and the publicly disclosed announcements while submitting their information disclosure applications, pursuant to the “No. 2 Memorandum for Listed Companies’ Day-to-day Information Disclosure Work - Guidance for the Handling of Information Disclosure Business” (the No. 2 Memorandum for short). 3. An application for emergency trading suspension in the morning or at noon should be handled strictly according to the stipulated time limit. Some companies submitted application forms for emergency trading suspension after the time limit, which severely affected the normal operation of trading suspension and resumption. Any listed company, for handling an application for trading suspension and resumption as well as other business operations, should submit the application for emergency trading suspension in the morning before 08:50 or at noon before 12:30 pursuant to the time limit as required in the No. 2 Memorandum. 4. Announcement categories should be correctly selected and registered, instead of registering any announcement not involved in the scope of the SSE’s Direct Channel as an announcement disclosed through the Direct Channel. Some companies, while submitting their applications for information disclosure related to the business operation, wrongly selected announcement categories and even register the announcement not involved with the SSE’s Direct Channel as an announcement disclosed through the Direct Channel, which led to failures in handling relevant business operation. The listed companies should correctly select the categories for the announcements involved with the SSE’s Direct Channel and those not involved with it, accurately register the announcement categories, seriously fill in relevant business application forms and check the accuracy and completeness of the contents of the application forms pursuant to the “Form of Issues about Business Operation Applications” in the “FAQs about Listed Companies’ Business Operation Applications” and the “SSE Index Table for Announcement Category of Information Disclosure”. 5. Any listed company, while applying for suspension and resumption of securities trading and other business operations, should timely contact with the SSE personnel in charge of regulation on listed companies and pay attention to the handling progress and result of the business operation application after submitting the application. 6. If a business operation issue involves a special circumstance, the relevant listed company should fully consult with the SSE and then submit a business application form according to the consultation opinions. 7. Any listed company, as the first responsible person for application handling and risk control of business operation, should bear relevant responsibilities and consequences in case of failing to handle a business operation application as required. For serious violations and consequences, the SSE should impose regulatory measures or disciplinary sanctions on the involved listed companies and relevant persons-in-charge. The full text of the “FAQs about Listed Companies’ Business Operation Applications” is available for inquiry on the SSE’s website (http://www.sse.com.cn). Listed companies and relevant information disclosure personnel should fully study and comply with it in its implementation, and do a better job in their business operation application. Shanghai Stock Exchange January 21, 2016

Notice of Issuing “SSE Registration Guidelines for Announcement Category of Information Disclosure” and Amending “SSE Index Table for Announcement Category of Information Disclosure”
21 Jan 2016
　　All listed companies, 　　Announcement category of information disclosure is a significant basis for the business of the listed companies’ information disclosure. In order to help the listed companies further understand the purpose and general principle for setting of announcement category of information disclosure and the basic requirement for registration of announcement category, so that they can choose the correct announcement category of information disclosure, avoid risks in relevant business practice in their information disclosure, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (the “SSE”) has formulated the “SSE Registration Guidelines for Announcement Category of Information Disclosure” (the “Guidelines”) on the basis of the “Explanations on Use of SSE Announcement Category of Information Disclosure” (Amended on August 15, 2013), as well as amended the “SSE Index Table for Announcement Category of Information Disclosure” (the “Index Table”). Relevant information is hereby notified as follows: 　　1. Major contents of the “Guidelines” 　　The “Guidelines” has 3 parts of “Setting of Announcement Category”, “Registration of Announcement Category” and “Frequently Asked Questions in Registration of Announcement Category” respectively. Parts of “Setting of Announcement Category” and “Registration of Announcement Category” mainly include the basic principles in setting announcement category and registration, while the part of “Frequently Asked Questions in Registration of Announcement Category” includes 46 possible problems in choosing announcement category in the form of questions and answers. 　　2. Major amendment contents of the “Index Table” 　　According to changes in business and needs in practice, the SSE adjusts the present announcement category by adding 21 new announcement categories and cancelling 5 announcement categories, amends 1 grade-I announcement category and 8 grade-II announcement categories, as well as combines 34 announcement categories into 13. After the adjustment, the “Index Table” presently has 36 grade-I announcement categories and 412 grade-II announcement categories. 　　The “Guidelines” and the amended “Index Table” will be put into effect from their announcement day, with relevant texts available for inquiry on the SSE’s website (http://www.sse.com.cn). Listed companies and relevant information disclosure personnel should fully study and comply with them in their implementation, and do a better job in their information disclosure and business operation application. 　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　January 21, 2016

Reform, Regulation, Risk Control for Sound Market
18 Jan 2016
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) studies the requirements put forward at the national securities and futures regulatory work meeting. On January 18, an enlarged Party committee meeting, attended by SSE officials at middle level and above, was held by the SSE to convey and study the requirements at the 2016 national securities and futures regulatory work meeting. All the attendees held that the report delivered by Chairman Xiao Gang of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) summarized the lessons learnt from the stock market’s abnormal fluctuations, analyzed the opportunities and challenges for the capital market’s development brought about by the current economic situations both at home and abroad as well as the supply-oriented structural reform, specified the general requirement for the 2016 securities and futures regulatory work, and deployed an array of key tasks, such as enhancing the capital market’s ability of serving real economy, cementing regulation against market risks, attaching importance to the compliance and honesty of market players, and strengthening Party building and cadre team building in the system. The report, characterized by its high pertinence and clear requirements, will guide us in our work in 2016. The attendees, in light of the requirements of the national securities and futures regulatory work meeting and the SSE’s actual work, talked about their understandings. They held that the SSE would face both pressures and opportunities in 2016, as we will encounter a complicated market and an arduous reform task this year. Higher requirements are put forward for stabilizing the market, due to the continuously greater pressure on the economic downturn, the interaction between the domestic and overseas financial markets, and the more variables and risks in the capital market’s operation. Besides, we have a batch of new tasks in propelling the market’s reform and growth, when it comes to the requirements for boosting the supply-oriented structural reform, the shares and bonds issuance system reform and coordinating with market-oriented mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations. The SSE Party Committee said that the general requirement for the SSE’s work in 2016 is to highlight the central tasks with reform and innovation as the core and risk control and market regulation as the guarantee, and serve the national economic growth and the capital market construction. (1) All the preparations for the registration system reform of stock issuance should be made according to the unified deployment by the CSRC. (2) All the work items related to rules, technologies and the market should be well done to establish the board of strategic emerging industries. (3) The SSE bond market should be further developed by perfecting all the systems and mechanisms as well as furthering risk control. (4) More efforts should be made in the SSE 50 ETF option pilot for optimizing the relevant mechanisms and stabilizing its operation. (5) We should build a trading platform of international financial assets in the Shanghai Free Trade Zone, optimize the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, study the Shanghai-London Stock Connect and support the growth of China Europe International Exchange (CEINEX). (6) We should perfect the monitoring, assessing and alerting mechanisms of market risks, fuel the researches on trading systems and the liquidity guarantee mechanism, and comprehensively elevate the ability of controlling systematical risks. (7) We should cement the regulation on listed companies’ information disclosure and behaviors of major shareholders and senior managers, strengthen the self-regulation of the SSE’s member institutions and improve the frontline surveillance efficiency. (8) We should also guarantee safe market operation, rationalize technological management and enhance the technologies’ supporting ability. (9) For the opinions given by the Central Inspection Team, all the rectification items should be accomplished. The SSE Party Committee required that all Party members and comrades of the SSE should further study the key instructions on the capital market’s reform and growth which were delivered by General Secretary Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang, carry out the requirements put forward in the suggestions on the 13th five-year planning and at the Central Economic Work Conference, implement all the arrangements and requirements at the national securities and futures regulatory work meeting. We should, with our unified thought and firm confidence, overcome the difficulties in a down-to-earth manner. Under the leadership of the CSRC Party Committee, we should bear our responsibilities and be courageous, more attentive, careful and patient than ever, erect a correct outlook on the market development and complete all the SSE work items of 2016.

Appraisal Result of “2015 Outstanding Institutions, Individuals on SSE Bond Market” Revealed
18 Jan 2016
In 2015, taking the opportunity of the corporate bonds issuance system reform, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) greatly enhanced the ability of the bond market in serving the real economy, and far-reaching progress has been made in the bond market, with both the scale and quality of the market being improved substantially. By the end of last year, the total bond issuance volume of the SSE’s primary market reached RMB1.87 trillion in the whole year, a year-on-year increase by 4.6 times. Besides, the trading volume of the SSE’s secondary market reached RMB123 trillion, up by 42% than that of last year. Presently, there are 4,415 bonds listed on the SSE, with RMB3.4 trillion under custody, up by 70% and 50% respectively than that of last year. The ability of the SSE bond market in serving the real economy has been greatly enhanced, with the market featuring more transparent transaction, convenient financing and efficient operation, as it is becoming a key channel for direct financing of enterprises and a major trading place for credit bonds. Meanwhile, in 2015, the SSE smoothly undertook the preliminary examination on listing of corporate bonds, further promoted innovative development of securitization of enterprise assets, treasury bonds’ pre-issuance and exchangeable bonds, as well as successfully launched such business lines as agreed repo of bonds and bonds lending. We have seen market innovation embark on a fast track for growth. In 2016, the SSE bond market will continue to insist upon the concept of “Equal Significance of Growth and Risk Control”, comply with and serve the 5 key tasks of “reducing production capacities, decreasing inventories, deleveraging, lowering costs and improving deficiencies” put forward by the CPC Central Committee, as well as stick to providing services for bond issuers, market institutions and all investors. Moreover, the SSE will, on the basis of thorough investigation and research and by collecting various opinions from all sides of the market, improve the organization system, business rules and technological system of its bond market in an all-round way, constantly strengthening risk prevention on its bond market, enhancing its service functions, and make it more attractive to the market. With an aim to encourage and award models, according to the performance of market institutions in corporate bonds underwriting, bonds transactions and relevant market innovation during last year, the SSE has set up awards for institutions in 5 categories on its bond market, namely, Outstanding Underwriter of Corporate Bonds, Outstanding Bond Dealer, Outstanding Manager for Special Assets-backed Scheme, Outstanding Dealer for Treasury Bonds’ Pre-issuance and Outstanding Innovative Institution for Bond Business, as well as 3 awards for individuals, namely, Outstanding Bond Underwriting Individual, Outstanding Bond Trader and Outstanding Person-in-charge for Assets Securitization Project.   Prize-winning Institutions are as follows: 1. Outstanding Underwriters of Corporate Bonds: China Securities Co., Ltd. China Merchants Securities Co., Ltd. CITIC Securities Co., Ltd. Haitong Securities Co., Ltd. Guotai Junan Securities Co., Ltd.   2. Outstanding Bond Dealers Industrial Bank Co., Ltd. Agricultural Bank of China Co., Ltd. Pingan Asset Management Co., Ltd. Sunshine Insurance Group Inc. CITIC Securities Co., Ltd. China Galaxy Securities Company Limited Tianhong Asset Management Co., Ltd. Rongtong Fund Management Co., Ltd.   3. Outstanding Managers for Special Assets-backed Scheme Hengtai Securities Co., Ltd. CITIC Securities Co., Ltd.   4. Outstanding Dealers for Treasury Bonds’ Pre-issuance Ping An Securities Co., Ltd. China Securities Co., Ltd.   5. Outstanding Innovative Institutions for Bond Business Guotai Jun’an Securities Asset Management Co., Ltd. (Outstanding Dealer of Agreed Repo of Bonds) Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited (Outstanding Dealer of Bonds Lending) China International Capital Corporation Limited. (Outstanding Underwriter of Exchangeable Bonds)   The above prize-winning information and applications of corporate bonds projects are available on the recently-launched “SSE Bonds” WeChat public account.

Notice of Carrying out Issues in “Regulations on Shareholding Lessening of List Company’s Major Shareholders, Directors, Supervisors and Senior Managers”
09 Jan 2016
Shang Zheng Fa (2016) No. 5 Document All listed companies, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby notifies the following issues, in a bid to carry out the “Regulations on Shareholding Lessening of List Company’s Major Shareholders, Directors, Supervisors and Senior Managers” (the Regulations for short), standardize the shareholding lessening by listed company’s controlling shareholder and shareholders who hold over 5% shares in the company (collectively called as the major shareholders) as well as directors, supervisors and senior managers, and specify the regulatory requirements. 1. From January 9, 2016, any listed company’s major shareholders shall not totally lessen holding of more than 1% of the company’s issued shares in the auctions on the stock exchange within any 3 consecutive months. 2. Any listed company’s major shareholders shall abide by the requirements in the Regulations, if they continue to lessen holding of the company’s shares got by them in other ways after lessening holding of the shares bought by them on the secondary market. The relevant requirements in the Regulations, such as those for the pre-disclosure of shareholding lessening and the limit on the proportion of shareholding lessening, shall not be applicable if the major shareholders lessen holding of the company’s shares bought by them on the secondary market. The abovementioned shares bought on the secondary market refer to the shares bought through the SSE auction system or the SSE block trading system. 3. When a listed company’s major shareholders lessen holding of RMB-dominated ordinary shares (A shares) or RMB-dominated special shares (B shares), the total issued shares related to the proportion of shareholding lessening shall be the total of A shares, B shares and H shares (shares listed on Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited). 4. If a listed company’s major shareholders carry out shareholding lessening by way of contractual transfer, a single transferee’s receiving proportion shall not be lower than 5%. The lower limit of the transfer price range shall be subject to the regulations on block trading, unless otherwise provided by the laws, regulations, department rules and the SSE business rules. 5. If a listed company’s major shareholders carry out shareholding lessening by way of contractual transfer, any transferor or transferee holding less than 5% shares after the shareholding lessening shall continue to observe Articles 8 and 9 in the Regulations within 6 months after the shareholding lessening; any transferor or transferee holding 5% shares or above after the shareholding lessening shall abide by the Regulations after the shareholding lessening. 6. The SSE shall, according to the pre-disclosure of the shareholding lessening plan, the plan’s implementation and the contractual transfer by the listed company’s major shareholders, directors, supervisors and senior managers, periodically carry out aftermath check on their shareholding lessening. For any violations, they shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions in the Regulations and the SSE business rules. Shanghai Stock Exchange January 9, 2016

Notice of Suspending Implementation of Circuit Breaker Mechanism for Index
07 Jan 2016
Shang Zheng Fa (2016) No. 4 Document All market participants, Upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has decided to suspend the implementation of the circuit breaker mechanism for index as stipulated in Section 5, Chapter 4 of the “SSE Trading Rules” from January 8, 2016. Shanghai Stock Exchange January 7, 2016

Notice of Releasing Format Instruction on Temporary Announcement on Shareholding Lessening Plan of Listed Company’s Shareholder
07 Jan 2016
Shang Zheng Han [2016] No. 17 Document All listed companies, In order to implement the “Regulations on Shareholding Lessening of List Company’s Major Shareholders, Directors, Supervisors and Senior Managers” issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission and urge the major shareholders, directors, supervisors and senior managers to abide by an array of requirements such as that for pre-disclosure of shareholding lessening, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), according to laws, regulations and the “SSE Stock Listing Rules”, has worked out the No. 98 format instruction on temporary announcement – Announcement on Shareholding Lessening Plan of Listed Company’s Shareholder and Its Implementation. The format instruction is hereby released, and shall come into force on January 9, 2016. The full text of the above format instruction could be found on the "Business Guide and Procedures" sub-column under the “Law & Regulation” column on the SSE website (www.sse.com.cn). The listed companies and relevant information disclosers are required to learn and abide by it, and complete the relevant work of information disclosure and business operation application. Shanghai Stock Exchange January 7, 2016

SSE Gives Format Instruction on Pre-disclosure of Shareholding Lessening
07 Jan 2016
　　The China Securities Regulatory Commission today releases the “Regulations on Shareholding Lessening of List Company’s Major Shareholders, Directors, Supervisors and Senior Managers”, making clear and specific provisions on shareholding lessening by listed company’s major shareholders, directors, supervisors and senior managers and building a pre-disclosure system for major shareholder’s shareholding lessening, which will contribute to stabilizing market expectation and guiding legitimate, transparent and orderly shareholding lessening by shareholders. 　　As required by the Regulations, exchanges should standardize the pre-disclosure of major shareholder’s shareholding lessening and specify the requirements for information disclosure. Thus, the SSE has formulated the “No. 98 Format Instruction on Announcement – Announcement on Shareholding Lessening Plan of Listed Company’s Shareholder and Its Implementation”, which stipulates that when a major shareholder lessens its shareholding by auction trading, it should disclose according to the requirements an announcement on its shareholding lessening plan and another announcement on the plan’s implementation. For the relevant requirements for shareholder’s pledge in the Regulations, the SSE has already formulated and released a special format instruction on such announcement. 　　The above No. 98 Format Instruction covers 3 aspects: firstly, any major shareholder planning to lessen shareholding shall disclose the arrangement for its shareholding lessening plan, including the source and number of the lessened shares, the period of shareholding lessening and the price range. Secondly, the major shareholder’s announcement on shareholding lessening shall fully reveal the uncertainties in implementing the plan and any significant risks such as possible change of controlling rights due to shareholding lessening. Thirdly, the major shareholder shall timely disclose the implementation of its shareholding lessening plan, including the number of the lessened shares, the proportion and the price range of shareholding lessening, and the shareholding of the shareholder and its concerted actors after the shareholding lessening. 　　A listed company’s major shareholders, directors, supervisors and senior managers shall strictly abide by the Regulations and the requirements in the above No. 98 Format Instruction issued by the SSE to prudently lessen shareholding. Any listed company’s shareholder who has disclosed an announcement on shareholding lessening before the release of the Regulations shall also observe the Regulations. Any shareholding lessening plan violating the Regulations shall not be implemented. The SSE will strengthen in-process regulation and aftermath punishment by imposing penalties on any violations against the regulations on pre-disclosure of shareholding lessening or any irregular shareholding lessening, and take regulatory measures or put disciplinary sanctions on such shareholders and relevant persons-in-charge. For any serious rule-breaking activity, a trading limit with a duration of 6 or 12 months will be imposed.

Q&A about Online, Offline Issuance of New Shares
05 Jan 2016
I. Q&A about Online Issuance 1. What are the major changes concerned in the modification? A: The major changes include: Firstly, the provision that investors shall pay subscription capital in full amount when entrusting their subscription was cancelled, and replaced by the stipulation that investors shall pay subscription price based on the issuance price finally determined and the quantity of lot-winning, with relevant business procedures nailed down. Secondly, it’s defined that in case an investor doesn’t pay subscription capital in full amount despite lot winning for 3 times accumulatively within 12 consecutive months, he/she shall be listed among those restricted from subscription. Within 180 days (the next day included) since his/her latest abandoning of such subscription, he/she shall not be allowed to subscribe for new shares online. Thirdly, investors are required to state the intent for their subscription in person; securities companies shall not conduct subscription for new shares on behalf of the investors by carte blanche. Fourthly, it’s defined that the new shares concerned in lot-winning, the subscription for which is abandoned due to insufficient capital of the investor, shall be underwritten by the lead underwriter or handled otherwise as defined and disclosed by the issuer and the lead underwriter. 2. After the modification, is there any change about the requirement of market capitalization held, calculation rules of market capitalization and relevant stipulations on the use of securities account for new shares subscribed for by an investor? A: There’s no change about these issues. The market capitalization held for new shares subscribed for by an investor refers to the market value of average daily A shares without sales limit held by the investor on the Shanghai market for a period of 20 trading days before the T-2 day (T-2 day included) calculated by the unit of the investor. The bonds, funds, ETFs, LOFs and other products held by the investor shall not be included in calculating market capitalization; the market capitalization of unqualified, dormant and write-off securities accounts shall not be counted; and the market capitalization of normal, frozen, loss-reported securities accounts, and credit-backed securities accounts of clients for margin trading and securities lending, shall be counted. To subscribe for shares publicly issued online, an investor can only use one securities account. Credit-backed securities accounts of clients for margin trading and securities lending may directly enter for subscription for new shares. In case that an investor tries to subscribe for a new share via several securities accounts or that an investor uses one securities account to subscribe for a new share for several times, only the first entry of the investor’s subscription will be deemed valid, leaving others invalid. 3. What’s the specific flow of online issuance of new shares? A: The specific flow of online issuance of new shares goes into details as follows: 1) On the T-1 day, the issuer and the lead underwriter publishes announcement of online issuance. 2) On the T day, an investor may inquire about the market capitalization held by him/her or the subscription limit he/she is allowed through the designated securities company for trading so that the investor may subscribe for new shares based on the limit. On the same day, number matching shall be conducted, with the results also delivered. In case that the issuer and the lead underwriter, in accordance with Article 10 of the “Administration Measures on Securities Issuance and Underwriting”, arrange for backing the amount of online and offline issuance of new shares, they shall inform the exchange of the backing amount between online and offline issuances on the T day. 3) On the T+1 day, the lead underwriter shall publish the lot winning rate, and carry out issuance lotting to reach the result of lot winning, which shall be sent to securities companies by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) post market closing on the same day. The former step of capital verification for subscription on the T+1 day shall be cancelled. 4) On the T+2 day, the lead underwriter shall publish the issuance price and the result of lot winning, and the investor may also inquire about the result with his/her designated securities company for trading. The lot-winning investor shall observe the obligation of capital settlement based on the result and ensure sufficient capital for subscription for new shares in his/her capital account on the T+2 day. 5) Before 15:00 on the T+3 day, clearing participants shall report data of subscription abandoning by investors to China Securities Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd. (CSDC); at 16:00, CSDC shall make settlement as to the subscription capitals and transfer the capitals to the capital settlement account of the lead underwriter. 6) On the T+4 day, the lead underwriter will transfer the subscription capital, with underwriting fees deducted, to the issuer, and publish the result of online issuance. 4. If an investor changes designated trading on the T day, could he/she inquire about the subscription limit he/she is allowed at the securities business department after the change of the designated trading and normally subscribe for new shares? A: On the T-1 day, Shanghai Branch of CSDC shall send the data of the market capitalization held by the investor to the SSE, which shall calculate the data of the subscription limit the investor is allowed and sent them to the securities company designated by the client’s securities account for trading in the evening of the T-1 day. For an investor subscribing for new shares after the change of the designated trading on the T day, the investor may inquire about the data of the subscription limit of new shares at the originally-designated securities business department in the evening of the T-1 day. If the securities company fails to handle the transfer of the market capitalization data, on the T day, the investor will fail to inquire about the data of the new share subscription at the securities business department after the change of the designated trading, and he/she can not normally subscribe for new shares. According to Article 12 of the “Detailed Rules on Online Issuance”, with regard to an investor subscribing for new shares, the securities company shall not apply for canceling designated trading for an investor participating in subscription for new shares before the T+3 day (T+3 day included). Besides, it is suggested that the investors who want to subscribe for new shares do not change designated trading on the T day. 5. How to deal with the situation if the subscription capital for new shares is not enough despite an investor’s lot winning? A: The investor shall observe the obligation of capital settlement based on the result of lot winning and ensure sufficient capital for subscription for new shares in his/her capital account on the T+2 day. An investor will be deemed to abandon the subscription in case of insufficient subscription capital, and the new shares for which subscription is abandoned shall not be registered in the investor’s securities account. If an investor accumulatively abandons subscription for 3 times within 12 consecutive months, he/she will be listed among those restricted from subscription. Within 6 months (180 natural days, the next day included) since the clearing participant’ latest application for the investor’s abandoning of such subscription, the investor shall not be allowed to subscribe for new shares online. 6. If an investor’s new share subscription is identified as invalid as the clearing participant does not have enough capital to complete the capital settlement for new share subscription, will it be regarded as the investor giving up subscription? A: It will not be regarded as the investor giving up subscription. The result and relevant legal liabilities caused by the insufficient capital of clearing participant shall be borne by the clearing participant. 7. How to deal with the new shares for which subscription is abandoned by an investor or is invalid? A: The new shares for which subscription is abandoned by an investor or is invalid shall not be registered in the investor’s securities account, and they shall be underwritten by the lead underwriter or handled otherwise as defined and disclosed by the issuer and the lead underwriter. For the new shares to be underwritten by the lead underwriter or to be handled in other ways, the lead underwriter shall complete the payment of relevant capital with the issuer when the online issuance is over, and the issuer shall be responsible for submitting an application for shares registration to Shanghai Branch of CSDC while the latter will complete the shares registration accordingly. 8. With regard to the stipulation that in case an investor doesn’t pay subscription capital in full amount despite lot winning for 3 times accumulatively within 12 consecutive months, the investor shall not be allowed to subscribe for new shares online within 6 months (180 natural days, the next day included) since the clearing participant’s latest application for the investor’s abandoning of subscription, how to understand it? A: The situation of giving up subscription should be judged by each investor as a unit. That is, if an investor has several securities accounts, each time he/she uses a securities account under his/her name to participate in the new shares subscription but finally gives up the subscription, it will be included in the times of giving up subscription by this investor. The way of affirming that several securities accounts belong to one investor is to make sure that the “Name of Securities Account Holder” and the “Number of Valid Identity Certification” in the registered materials of these securities accounts are the same; the “12 consecutive months” refers to any 12 successive months calculated in a roll; the times of giving up subscription shall be calculated by the number of the new shares that the investor actually gives up to subscribe for. For example, as Investor A does not have sufficient capital in the day-end capital account on November 19, 2014, the subscription capital for the three new shares that are to be paid on that day is insufficient, and the clearing participant thus makes three applications for giving up subscription for Investor A on November 20, 2014. This investor will thus be listed among those restricted from subscription from the next day (November 21, 2014) for 180 natural days till May 19, 2015. And this investor can normally subscribe for new share from May 20, 2015. From May 20, 2015 to November 19, 2015, if Investor A gives up subscription again (if his/her clearing participant applies for giving up subscription on August 12, 2015), Investor A will be listed among those restricted from subscription again from August 13, 2015 for 180 natural days as he/she has given up subscription for 4 times in 12 consecutive months. 9. How should an investor inquire whether he/she has been listed among those restricted from subscription for new shares? A: In case an investor doesn’t pay subscription capital in full amount despite lot winning for 3 times accumulatively within 12 consecutive months, the investor shall not be allowed to subscribe for new shares online within 6 months (180 natural days, the next day included) since the clearing participant’s latest application for the investor’s abandoning of subscription. When an investor is listed among those restricted from subscription for new shares according to the stipulation, the re-subscription shall be deemed as invalid if the investor subscribes for new shares again. The investor may inquire about the specific reason for the invalid subscription at the designated securities company’s business department at the end of the day. 10. If an investor wins the lots of several new shares on the Shanghai market but does not have sufficient subscription capital, how should the clearing participant allocate the non-paid-in capital of such new shares? A: In this case, the clearing participant and the investor may settle through negotiation. The clearing participant may decide the settling methods and sign relevant agreement in advance with the investor. Once it occurs, the clearing participant may, according to the prior agreement, rationally allocate the non-paid-in capital for the investor's subscribing for several new shares. 11. For IPOs of total number of shares below 20 million (20 million included) with no transfer plan of old shares, are there any special provisions? A: For IPOs of total number of shares below 20 million (20 million included) with no transfer plan of old shares, the issuance price shall be determined through the direct pricing by the issuer and the lead underwriter, and all the shares to be publicly issued shall be issued at set price to online investors. Attachment: Notice of Issuing “Detailed Rules on Online Issuing IPO Shares on Shanghai Market”   II. Q&A About Offline Issuance 1. What are the main contents in the revision to the business rules? A: Firstly, the rule that offline investors shall pay the subscription capital in full amount on the subscription day has been cancelled, and the requirements and the related business process for the offline investors paying the subscription capital on the basis of the finally determined issuance price and the allocated quantity have been specified; Secondly, it has been specified that the subscription day for the offline issuance of new shares is the same day as the online subscription day, and the subscription time for offline issuance is from 09:30 to 15:00 on the T day; Thirdly, if the issuance price is directly determined through the independent negotiation of the issuer and the lead underwriter, all the shares that the issuer plans to offer publicly shall be issued to the online investors after being priced directly, with the offline issuance no longer arranged. 2. After the revision, what requirements have been made for the offline investors participating in preliminary enquiry in holding the market capitalization? A: The lead underwriters shall, according to the related provisions of the self-regulatory rules of the Securities Association of China, require the offline investors and the allotment objects under their management to hold a daily average market capitalization of RMB10 million (included) or above for the A shares without sales limit on the Shanghai market within 20 trading days prior to the base day (including the base day) which shall be the two trading days before the starting day of the preliminary enquiry day, and the market capitalization shall not be lower than the requirement for market capitalization determined and announced by the issuer and the lead underwriter in advance. The rules for calculation of market capitalization stipulated in the “Detailed Rules on Online Issuing IPO Shares on Shanghai Market” are applicable to calculation of the market capitalization of the A shares without sales limit on the Shanghai market held by the offline investors and the allotment objects under their management participating in the offline subscription business. 3. What is the specific process for the offline issuance of new shares? A: The specific process of offline issuance of new shares is as follows: (1) In two trading days before the starting day of preliminary enquiry, the lead underwriter releases the IPO prospectus and the announcement on the preliminary enquiry. (2) Before 10:00 on the trading day prior to the start of the preliminary enquiry, the lead underwriter inputs parameters for the preliminary enquiry through the electronic platform of the SSE for offline subscription, and confirms the qualification for participation of the offline investors and the allotment objects. (3) During the preliminary enquiry, the offline investors offer quotes for the objects under their management. The same offline investor can only offer one quote, and the non-individual investors shall offer quotes in the unit of institution. (4) On the T-3 day, the preliminary enquiry ends. (5) On the T-2 day, the issuer and the lead underwriter determine the issuance price (or the range of issuance price). (6) On the T-1 day, the issuer and the lead underwriter publish the announcement on the offline issuance; after eliminating the quotes that cannot participate in the subscription in the preliminary enquiry, the lead underwriter determines the list of investors offering valid quotes, which shall be confirmed before 15:00 on the electronic platform of the SSE for offline subscription. (7) On the T day, the offline investors make subscription, in which it is not necessary to pay the subscription capital. (8) On the T+1 day, the lead underwriter uploads the results of the initial allotment. The offline investors inquire about the funds to be paid for the offline allotment. The original process of the accounting firms verifying the subscription capital on the T+1 day is cancelled. (9) On the T+2 day, the lead underwriter announces the result of the preliminary allotment, and the offline investors accordingly pay the subscription capital for the new shares before 16:00 on the same day. (10) Before 14:00 on the T+3 day, the lead underwriter uploads the ultimately determined result of allotment to the electronic platform of the SSE for offline subscription. (11) On the T+4 day, the lead underwriter transfers the subscription capital to the issuer’s account. (12) After the completion of the offline issuance, the lead underwriter shall announce the result of the offline allotment to the market. 4. When shall the offline investors winning the allotment pay the subscription capital? If an offline investor fails to pay the subscription capital in full amount or is unable to transfer the capital from the filed bank account within the prescribed time, how shall it be handled? A: Before 16:00 on the T+2 day, the offline investors winning the allotment shall pay the subscription capital in full amount. If an investor fails to pay the subscription capital in full amount or transfer the capital from the filed bank account within the prescribed time, their relevant allotted shares will be regarded as invalid subscription and will not be registered in the securities account of the offline investor. The shares shall be underwritten by the lead underwriter or be handled in other ways determined and disclosed by the issuer and the lead underwriter in advance. 5. What matters should the offline investors pay attention to in paying the subscription capital? A: Firstly, the offline investors are obliged to transfer the capital to CSDC from their bank accounts registered at the Securities Association of China within the prescribed period of time. Secondly, the offline investors are obliged to transfer the subscription capital to the special account for offline issuance opened by CSDC at the settlement bank. Thirdly, when an offline investor transfers the subscription capital, the information attached in the payment voucher (such as stock code and securities account) shall be in accordance with related requirements (see the detailed rules on offline issuing IPO shares on the Shanghai market and the business guide of Shanghai Branch of CSDC). Attachment: Notice of Issuing “Detailed Rules on Offline Issuing IPO Shares on Shanghai Market”

Notice on SSE Exchange-traded Fund Subscription, Redemption in Circuit Breaker Period for Index
31 Dec 2015
　　Shang Zheng Han (2015) No. 2670 Document 　　All market participants, 　　During the period of circuit breaker for index on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), in the principle stipulated in the fund contract that the opening time of the fund subscription and redemption should accord with the trading time, the subscription and redemption of the SSE exchange-traded equity funds should be synchronously suspended. So should the business related to the SSE Mutual Funds Distribution Channel. 　　All market participants are required to make business and technology preparations. 　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　December 31, 2015

Notice on Further Specifying Issues about Securities Trading Resumption in Circuit Breaker Period for Index
31 Dec 2015
　　Shang Zheng Fa (2015) No. 102 Document 　　All market participants, 　　To ensure the smooth implementation of the circuit breaker mechanism for index, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), according to Section 4.5.6 of the “SSE Trading Rules”, further specifies issues about the securities trading resumption during the circuit breaker period for index as follows: 　　1. When securities trading resumption occurs during the period of the circuit breaker for index implemented by the SSE, the trading resumption should be postponed till the circuit breaker ends, except that the securities products are out of the scope for implementation of the circuit breaker. 　　During the postponement period, order submission should be subject to the regulations on the circuit breaker for index. If the circuit breaker ends before 15:00, orders could be continuously submitted or canceled during the postponement period. After the circuit breaker ends, the SSE’s trading host will match the accepted orders by way of call auction, and the securities trading will be resumed. If the circuit breaker lasts till 15:00, during the postponement period, the SSE’s trading host will only accept order cancellation, and trading will not be resumed on that day. 　　2. When the SSE market implements the circuit breaker for index, if the securities triggers the conditions for in-session temporary trading suspension as stipulated both in the “SSE Guidance for Real-time Supervision on Abnormal Securities Trading” and the “Notice of Regulation on Trading of New Shares in Initial Listing Period”, the in-session temporary trading suspension of relevant securities will last till the market closing, and the trading will not be resumed on that day. After the SSE market completes relevant technical development and testing, the trading resumption time for in-session temporary trading suspension will be restored to be subject to the regulations in the “SSE Guidance for Real-time Supervision on Abnormal Securities Trading” and the “Notice of Strengthening Regulation on Trading of New Shares in Initial Listing Period” and those in the above paragraph of this notice, with the specific resumption time to be notified by the SSE later. 　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　December 31, 2015

Notice of Amending Format Instruction on Announcement on Pledge (Freezing, Pledge Termination, Freezing Termination) of Shares Issued by Listed Companies
29 Dec 2015
All listed companies, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), according to laws and regulations as well as the “SSE Stock Listing Rules”, has amended the No. 46 format instruction on temporary announcement -- “Announcement on Pledge (Freezing, Pledge Termination and Freezing Termination) of Shares Issued by Listed Companies”, in a bid to standardize the disclosure of shares pledge, freezing, pledge termination and freezing termination by shareholders, enhance the effectiveness of the information disclosure and timely reveal risks to investors. The amended format instruction is hereby released, and shall come into force on the day of release. The full text of the amended format instruction could be found on the "Business Guide and Procedures" sub-column under the “Law & Regulation” column on the SSE website (www.sse.com.cn). The listed companies and relevant information disclosers are required to learn and abide by it, and complete the relevant work of information disclosure and business operation application. Shanghai Stock Exchange December 29, 2015

SSE New Website, Mobile APP Debut
21 Dec 2015
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), in response to the 25th anniversary of its opening, unveiled its new website and mobile app on December 19, 2015, in a bid to improve information transparency and build a securities information community seamlessly connected with investors. The new website, including over 700 columns and more than 1 million webpages, has three versions (Simple Chinese, Traditional Chinese and English) and sets up 7 user entrances for different participants on the securities market. Owing to its powerful searching ability, users can easily find from the mass information on the website their needed announcements, information disclosure documents, company information and various online services offered by the SSE. Besides, the new website is highlighted by its barrier-free social media sharing function everywhere, as all the webpages of all columns, notices and announcements could be shared in micro-blogs and WeChat, and have been connected with the SSE e-interaction platform for investors to contact with listed companies at any time. The synchronously launched SSE mobile app, developed with the concept of “authority, timeliness and accuracy”, realizes the “SSE on mobile phone”, which meet the need of investors for mobile connection with the SSE. The SSE app covers an array of columns including news, announcements, calendar, quotes, data, regulation and investor education, so that users can quickly get authoritative and customized information, grasp all notices and information released by the SSE at any time, check listed companies’ announcements, quotes and regulatory records, and even ask listed companies questions online. Noticeably, the app’s customized service allows users to track the stocks selected by them and get real-time quotes after they register with the SSE Service Pass. And the app will timely push the announcements of listed companies customized for users. Now available in some mobile app markets, the app could also be downloaded by scanning the 2D code on the SSE website’s homepage. New Website Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE, SZSE, CFFEX Issue Rules for Circuit Breaker Mechanism for Index
04 Dec 2015
On December 4, as approved by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and the China Financial Futures Exchange (CFFEX) officially issued the rules for the index circuit breaker, which will come into effect on January 1, 2016. The circuit breaker mechanism for index is an important institutional arrangement to further improve the trading mechanism on China’s securities and futures market, safeguard the market order, protect the rights and interests of investors and promote the long-term, stable and healthy development of the capital market. The circuit breaker mechanism for index to be implemented has been formed after being improved on the basis of public solicitation of opinions on the draft rules. From September 7 to 21, the three exchanges publicly solicited opinions on the rules of the circuit breaker mechanism for index, which was highly concerned by all market participants who returned 4,861 opinions and suggestions of all kinds to the three exchanges. Generally speaking, the market participants have expressed recognition for the overall plan of the mechanism. After carefully studying and demonstrating the opinions and suggestions, the three exchanges have accepted the most concentrated ones with others not adopted at present. The details are as follows. Firstly, the issue concerning the time of trading suspension for the circuit breaker. According to the publicly solicited opinions, most investors suggested that the suspension time of 30 minutes for circuit breaker is too long, with such opinions taking the highest proportion. In order to mitigate the impact on the market liquidity when giving play to the role of the circuit breaker mechanism, the three exchanges have shortened the trading suspension time after triggering off the circuit breaker limit of 5% from 30 minutes to 15 minutes, but the arrangement was retained that the trading suspension will continue until the closing when the limit of 5% is triggered off near the closing or the limit of 7% is touched at any time during the trading session. The main reasons include: first, the sharp fluctuations usually take place during the final session before closing, and the rule that the trading shall be suspended until the closing when the circuit breaker limit of 5% is triggered off at or after 14:45 is conducive to preventing the abnormal fluctuations during the period. Second, the CSI 300 is an important index product reflecting the overall trends of the stock markets in Shanghai and Shenzhen, with such features as high representativeness and strong resistance to manipulation. When it goes up or down by 7%, it usually means that sharp volatility has taken place in the market, which is likely to face the extreme systemic risks. Therefore, the market needs more time to calm down so as to prevent the spreading panic from intensifying the market fluctuations. In terms of the overseas markets, the markets in the United States, South Korea, India and other regions have set the arrangements for trading suspension until the closing when the highest circuit breaker limit is triggered off, in a bid to prevent the systemic risks. Secondly, adaptation to the current price limit system. Some market participants said that if the current price limit system remains unchanged, it is not so necessary to implement the circuit breaker mechanism. They suggested relaxing or cancelling the price limit system for the stocks while introducing the circuit breaker. According to the research, the circuit breaker mechanism and the price limit system are both the measures for stabilizing the prices in the short term. But the two systems are different to some extent in targets and principles of the functions and other aspects. The price limit system sets the limit for the price fluctuations in the trading of a single securities product, mainly preventing severe price fluctuations of a single securities product, and the securities product can still be traded at the price limits; the circuit breaker mechanism for index means suspending the trading of the entire market for some time when the fluctuations of a market benchmark index exceed a certain range, so as to guard against the excessive responses of the market; after the circuit breaker is triggered off, all the securities products within the range of the circuit breaker will have the trading halted during the suspension session. According to the abnormal fluctuations in the stock market this year, the price limit system was not enough to play the role in stabilizing the market in extreme cases, and it has been increasingly necessary to introduce the circuit breaker mechanism for index. In addition, as the price limit system is a fundamental institutional arrangement for China’s securities market, relaxing or cancelling the system will affect the current institutional arrangements such as the system of management of settlement risks, the risk control measures for the leverage-related businesses and the market supervision indicators, and have significant impact on the trading habits of the investors. Therefore, it is unlikely to relax or cancel the system in the near future. In the next step, the three exchanges will also, on the basis of the implementation of the circuit breaker mechanism for index, coordinate the effort and pace of reform and the bearing capacity of the market, and continue to improve the related trading mechanisms, so as to promote the steady and healthy development of the capital market. Thirdly, the issue of the limits for the circuit breaker. In the opinion of some market participants, the current limits are relatively low, so there may be many times to trigger off the limits and the too small gap may lead to the two limits triggered off in succession. They suggested setting one limit, or increasing the limits to 6% and 8%, or widening the gap between the limits. We believe that with the 10% price limit retained, the limits of the index circuit breaker that can be selected are restricted, and the two limits of 5% and 7% introduced by the three exchanges are on the basis of the analysis and calculation of the historical data in the past 11 years. In specific, the first limit of 5% may coordinate both the demands for setting the period of calming down and maintaining the normal trading; although there are few cases of triggering off the 7% limit, it is a significantly abnormal case that should be prevented and should be also taken into account, so as to stop the sharp and sudden increases and drops and other extremely abnormal market situations from continuing. Fourthly, the selection of the benchmark index. Some market participants said that the CSI 300 index cannot reflect the trends of the stocks with small and medium-sized market values. Usually, we should select the index characterized by high representativeness, significant influence and difficulty in being manipulated as the benchmark index for the circuit breaker, and the CSI 300 index has the above characteristics. Compared with the single-market indexes, the CSI 300 index can reflect the overall market fluctuations for A shares in a more comprehensive way; meanwhile, the CSI 300 index is also dominant on the market in the coverage of market value and the number and size of the tracked products. Fifthly, the issue of two-way circuit breaker. Some market participants suggested only setting the down limit for the circuit breaker. We believe that the two-way circuit breaker is more conducive to curbing excessive trading and controlling the market volatility. As in the structure of the domestic market investors, the small and medium-sized individual investors are in the majority, there have been significant two-way price fluctuations with both panic drops and excessively rapid increases, including the sharp increases within a short time caused by accidents. Therefore, the “surging” market also needs the circuit breaker mechanism to stabilize the market sentiments and prevent the overreaction of the investors to the increases in the market, so as to enable the investors to have more time to make further judgment whether the current prices are reasonable. We should also explain that there are slight differences among the specific business arrangements of the three exchanges in implementing the circuit breaker mechanism, and the investors are requested to pay attention to the Q&A on the business and related announcements to be issued by the exchanges.

Notice of Adding Section 5 Circuit Breaker Mechanism for Index to Chapter 4 of "SSE Trading Rules"
04 Dec 2015
Shang Zheng Fa (2015) No. 94 Document All Market Participants, Upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has decided to give regulations on issues about the circuit breaker mechanism for index (see attachment) by adding Section 5 Circuit Breaker Mechanism for Index to Chapter 4 of the "SSE Trading Rules", with an aim to prevent the risk of dramatic market fluctuations, further improve the securities trading system, maintain the market order, protect investors’ rights and interests, and propel long-term and sound growth of the securities market. The above Section 5 shall come into force on January 1, 2016. All the market participants are required to prepare for relevant business and technical system of the circuit breaker mechanism for index, so as to ensure a steady market operation. The issues that are not implemented temporarily, as stipulated in the "Notice of Revising ‘SSE Trading Rules’ and Relevant Issues" [Shang Zheng Fa (2013) No. 9 Document] issued by the SSE in 2013, shall still be subject to the relevant regulations. Shanghai Stock Exchange December 4, 2015

Q&A on Circuit Breaker Mechanism for Index
04 Dec 2015
1. The trading and relevant business of which products will be influenced by the circuit breaker mechanism for index? When the circuit breaker mechanism is triggered, the auction trading of stocks and their relevant products will all be suspended while the non-trading businesses such as new shares issuance, right issue, and voting can be applied as normal. If the circuit breaker continues till 15:00, block trading of relevant securities will not be conducted on the very day. At present, there are some differences among the exchanges in terms of the scope of products for the circuit breaker mechanism and the relevant business influence due to the differences of the technology systems. First, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will suspend the auction trading of stocks and relevant products, including A shares, B shares, funds (gold ETFs, exchange-traded money market funds, and bond ETFs not included), convertible corporate bonds, and exchangeable corporate bonds. In terms of securities lending of refinancing, if the circuit breaker finishes before 15:00, the application, matched trading, and securities return of the securities lending of refinancing will be normal; if it lasts till 15:00, the refinancing-related securities lending and borrowing applications of relevant securities will not be accepted after the circuit breaker, the applications accepted before the circuit breaker will be continued for matched trading, and the securities that should be returned on the day will be returned on the next trading day in accordance with the way of securities trading suspension. Second, the securities products with the circuit breaker mechanism adopted by the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) are almost the same with those of the SSE, except that auction trading of gold ETFs, exchange-traded money market funds and bond ETFs will also be suspended during the circuit breaker period. But this difference will be adjusted to be the same as that of the SSE after the launch of the new system. With regard to the refinancing-related securities lending, if the circuit breaker finishes before 15:00, the refinancing-related securities lending and return will be normal; if it lasts till 15:00, in accordance with the way of securities trading suspension, the refinancing-related securities lending of relevant securities will not be conducted on the very day, and the return day of the securities that should be returned will be delayed till the next trading day. Third, the China Financial Futures Exchange (CFFEX) will suspend the trading of all stock index futures products (including the CSI 300, the CSI 500, and the SSE 50 index futures) but the treasury bond futures trading will be normal. The details are subject to the exchanges' announcements. 2. How will the trading be resumed after the finish of circuit breaker for index? For the SSE and the SZSE, if the circuit breaker finishes before 15:00, call auction will be conducted on the accepted applications for order matching after the finish of the circuit breaker, and then it will enter into the auction trading stage. For the CFFEX, the call auction's order application will be conducted within 3 minutes before the finish of the circuit breaker, after which the call auction's order matching will be conducted immediately, and then the consecutive auction will be carried out. 3. Can investors apply or cancel applications during the circuit breaker period? There are some differences on application and canceling during the circuit breaker period among the three exchanges. For the SSE, if the circuit breaker finishes before 15:00, application and canceling can both be conducted during the circuit breaker period; if it lasts till 15:00, only canceling is accepted during the circuit breaker period. For the SZSE, investors can both apply and cancel their applications during the circuit breaker period. For the CFFEX, when the CSI 300 Index reaches the 5% threshold, relevant contracts will enter into the 12-minute circuit breaker period, during which their trading will be suspended and no application and canceling will be accepted, and in the 3-minute call auction application period after the circuit breaker period, both application and canceling will be accepted; and when the CSI 300 triggers the 7% threshold or when the 5% threshold is triggered within 15 minutes before the closing of relevant contracts, the trading of relevant contracts will be suspended till the closing time of that day, during which no application and canceling will be accepted. Besides, if the circuit breaker period spans the noon market closure, relevant arrangements of the three exchanges will conform to the existing market closure arrangement, and investors cannot apply or cancel their applications during the noon market closure. 4. Will the reference trading price and amount be revealed during the circuit breaker period? During the circuit breaker period and the call auction period afterwards, the three exchanges will not reveal the virtual reference prices, the virtual matching amounts, and the virtual unmatched amounts. 5. Will the purchase and redemption of funds be affected when the circuit breaker mechanism is triggered? Subject to the relevant announcements released by the fund managers. 6. What are the influences of the circuit breaker mechanism for index on Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect? The joint announcement released on April 10, 2014 stipulates the "home-field principle", namely, "the trading and settlement activities should observe the regulations and business rules of the market where they occur." And the following arrangements are made accordingly. The first is about Shanghai Stock Connect. The circuit breaker mechanism for index in China's Mainland applies to Shanghai Stock Connect, and when the A-shares market triggers the threshold of the circuit breaker mechanism for index, the trading of investors in China's Mainland and investors of Shanghai Stock Connect will both be suspended; and the investors' applications, canceling their applications, and other relevant arrangements of Shanghai Stock Connect shall be subject to the relevant rules of the circuit breaker mechanism for index in China's Mainland. The second is about Hong Kong Stock Connect. When the A-shares market triggers the circuit breaker mechanism for index, the business of Hong Kong Stock Connect will not be influenced. 7. What are the special arrangements of the circuit breaker mechanism for index during the delivery days of stock index futures contracts? At present, the delivery settlement price of domestic stock index futures is calculated by the arithmetic mean prices during the last two hours of the delivery day of the spot underlying index. To ensure the normal delivery of stock index futures, the circuit breaker mechanism for index will not be implemented after 13:00 of the delivery day of stock index futures. Specifically, there are following two situations: first, the circuit breaker mechanism for index will not be implemented from 13:00 to 15:00; second, the circuit breaker mechanism for index implemented in the morning will recover trading from 13:00 at the latest. 8. Why adjust the trading time for stock index futures contracts? The CFFEX adjusts the opening and closing time for stock index futures to comply with that of the spot market. That is, the call auction time for stock index futures is from 09:25 to 09:30 of every trading day and the consecutive auction time is from 09:30 to 11:30 and from 13:00 to 15:00 of every trading day. The major goal of adjusting the trading time for stock index futures is to keep pace with the spot stock market. 9. What are the changes on the limit-up or limit-down of stock index futures contracts after introducing the circuit breaker mechanism for index? The limit for maximum daily price fluctuation of stock index futures contracts, referring to the limit-up or limit-down of their daily prices, has been adjusted from ±10% of the settlement price on the previous trading day to ±7%. And the limit-up or limit-down of the contracts on the last trading day is still ±20% of the settlement price on the previous trading day. When the increase or decrease of the CSI 300 index does not reaches 5% of the closing price on the previous trading day, the price limit of stock index futures contracts is ±5% of the settlement price on the previous trading day; when the increase or decrease of the CSI 300 index reaches or exceeds 5% of the closing price on the previous trading day, the stock index futures contracts will enter into the circuit breaker period, and the corresponding upper or down limit for maximum daily price fluctuation of the contracts will take effect immediately after the trading is resumed. 10. How to calculate the settlement prices of stock index futures when the circuit breaker mechanism is triggered? The settlement price of the very day refers to the weighted average price of the trading prices of a contract during a certain period according to the trading volume. When circuit breaker, call auction application, or trading suspension occur during this period, corresponding time will be fully obtained forwardly after deducting the time for circuit breaker, call auction application, and trading suspension. 11. Are there any other issues related to the circuit breaker mechanism for index that investors should pay special attention to and learn about? Investors should pay special attention to the following arrangements of the circuit breaker mechanism for index. First, when the call caution at the opening time triggers the circuit breaker, the circuit breaker mechanism for index will be implemented according to the triggering situation from 09:30; second, on the non-stock index futures contracts delivery days, when the time of circuit breaker in the morning is not enough, it will be supplemented after the opening of the afternoon market and the noon market closure will not be included in the circuit breaker time; third, when the circuit breaker lasts till 15:00 and the trading is not resumed, the closing prices of relevant securities will be the weighted average price of the trading volume within the last minute before the last trading (inclusive) of this securities product on the very day, or the previous closing price when no trading occurs on the very day; fourthly, when the circuit breaker is triggered during the call auction from 14:57 to 15:00, the SZSE will not implement the circuit breaker mechanism for index; fifthly, during the period of circuit breaker mechanism for index, trading resumption of relevant securities will be delayed till the completion of the circuit breaker mechanism for index. When the circuit breaker is triggered, the exchanges will release relevant announcements on their websites, informing of the time for trading resumption and suspension. Investors are required to pay close attention to the information on the exchanges' websites, so as to make corresponding business preparations.

Notice of Soliciting Opinions on Nos. 8 – 13 SSE Guidance Documents on Industry Information Disclosure
22 Nov 2015
　　 　　SSE Announcement [2015] No. 31 Document   According to laws and regulations as well as rules including the “SSE Stock Listing Rules”, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has revised and drafted Nos. 8 – 13 SSE Guidance Documents on Industry Information Disclosure (see attachments), in a bid to guide listed companies’ disclosure of industry-related operational information and enhance effectiveness of information disclosure. The SSE hereby solicits opinions from the public.   Please send your opinions or suggestions to the SSE in written form or by e-mail before November 30, 2015. Mailing address: SSE Department I of Listed Companies Supervision, Shanghai Stock Exchange Building, 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120 　　 Fax: +86-21-68811782 E-mail: listing@sse.com.cn   Shanghai Stock Exchange November 22, 2015

SH-HK Stock Connect Records Safe, Sound Operation in 1st Year
18 Nov 2015
Yesterday, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held a sum-up symposium to mark the first anniversary of the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect. Fang Xinghai, Vice Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), attended the symposium and delivered a speech, and Gui Minjie, SSE Chairman of the Governors, also addressed the symposium. Fang said that on the basis of the existing practical experience, the CSRC would strive to improve the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, expand the trading limits and the underlying scope, further strengthen cross-border regulatory cooperation and step up efforts in cross-border law enforcement. Meanwhile, the CSRC would effectively carry out the mutual recognition of funds in China’s mainland and Hong Kong, continue to advance the Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect, and further push forward the integration of the two capital markets in China’s mainland and Hong Kong. Gui said in his speech that the SSE would vigorously propel the process of the two-way opening-up of the capital market in China’s mainland, including optimizing and improving the mechanism of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, press ahead with the smooth opening and stable operation of the China Europe International Exchange (CEINEX), spare no efforts in launching the international financial assets trading platform of Shanghai Free Trade Zone and study the launch of Shanghai-London Stock Connect.   Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect records a total trading amount of RMB2.13 trillion in a year.   On November 17, 2014, the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect was launched with the opening gong sounded. Data show that as of November 16, 2015, the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect recorded a total trading amount of RMB2.13 trillion in its first year. Specifically, the Shanghai Stock Connect running 230 trading days traded RMB1.54 trillion, with RMB120.706 billion or 40.24% of the total limit used; the Hong Kong Stock Connect running 225 trading days traded RMB589.86 billion, with RMB92.148 billion or 36.86% of the total limit used.   It is noteworthy that the Shanghai Stock Connect posted a daily average trading amount of RMB3.834 billion in the first month after its opening, with the figure reaching RMB4.727 billion in October this year, an increase of 24%; the Hong Kong Stock Connect registered a daily average trading amount of RMB462 million in the first month after being launched, with the figure amounting to RMB1.727 billion in October this year, up by 240%. Meanwhile, in the whole year of operation, trading was recorded on all 569 underlying stocks in Shanghai Stock Connect and 295 underlying stocks in Hong Kong Stock Connect.   With regard to investors, a total of 121 securities dealers in the Hong Kong market participated in Shanghai Stock Connect, with institutional investors as the majority and individual investors the minority. On the other hand, a total of 94 securities dealers in China’ mainland were granted to trade through Hong Kong Stock Connect. Among the accounts permitted to trade via Hong Kong Stock Connect, most are individual investors, with the institutional investors in the minority.   Further promoting integration of the markets in China’ mainland and Hong Kong   Addressing the symposium yesterday, Fang said that as a major initiative of institutional innovation in the opening-up of China’s capital market, the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect is a significance milestone. With the full convertibility of the capital account yet to be achieved, the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect has significantly improved the efficiency of the capital flow for cross-border investments, provided the investors at home and abroad with a more convenient channel for investing in each other’s market, and effectively promoted the integration of the markets in China’s mainland and Hong Kong. Internationally, it is of groundbreaking significance to connect the two markets with remarkable differences in market structure and development degree, and make their operation stable and smooth. The initiative has also provided important experience for interconnectivity of other markets worldwide.   Regarding the "report card" for the first year operation of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, Fang said that since its official launch, the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect has reported stable and orderly trading of stocks in general, with normal operation recorded in all processes such as transaction settlement, control of limits and foreign exchange. During the process, it has withstood the test of significant fluctuations on the capital markets in the world and China’s mainland, and achieved the expected goals. The Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect has played an important role in improving the liquidity of A shares, the investors’ structure and the internationalization of RMB, consolidating the position of Hong Kong as an international financial center, and advancing the development of Shanghai as an international financial center.   He further pointed out that in its next step, on the basis of the existing practical experience, the CSRC will strive to perfect the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, expand the trading limits and the underlying scope, further strengthen the cross-border regulatory cooperation, and step up the efforts in cross-border law enforcement. Meanwhile, it will effectively carry out mutual recognition of funds in China’s mainland and Hong Kong, continue to push forward the “Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect”, and further enhance the integration of the two markets in China’s mainland and Hong Kong. It is necessary for the securities industry in China’s mainland to continue to learn from the experience of Hong Kong in market orientation, internationalization, rule of law and other aspects.   Fang stressed that President Xi Jinping recently said that we should unswervingly improve the opening-up system and mechanism and make efforts in mutual advancement between expanding opening-up and deepening reform. At present and during the “13th Five-year Plan” period, the main tasks in China’s economy is adjusting the structure and advancing the reform in supply, with the focus on reducing costs, improving quality and increasing effective supply. It is also the main problem for the capital market to solve. In the increasingly globalized world, it has been impractical to improve ourselves with the door closed, and we must adjust the structure with our door opened. In its next step, the CSRC will, in accordance with the deployments of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council, on the basis of the national conditions and current situations, with an eye to the future and the world, continue to unswervingly push forward the two-way opening-up of the capital market, direct the securities and futures industry to make improvement and compete in an orderly way, and boost the prosperity of the industry and the market, in a bid to support the restructuring, transformation and upgrading of China’s economy and facilitate the accomplishment of overall arrangement for China’s diplomacy.   Actively advancing the two-way opening-up of the capital market in China’s mainland   Summarizing the basic characteristics of the first year operation of the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, Gui said that since its launch, the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect has operated steadily and orderly in the past year generally, meeting the expected goals for the pilot. The main characteristics include brisk trading, stable operation and active participation. With smooth opening and stable operation, the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect has reached the expected goals and achieved initial success, which is of great significance. First, it has improved the vitality and influence of the capital markets in China’s mainland and Hong Kong; second, it has advanced the process of RMB internationalization; third, it has promoted and consolidated the positions of Shanghai and Hong Kong as international financial centers; fourthly, it has created the new trend of interconnectivity between exchanges.   Talking about “optimizing and improving the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, and vigorously advancing the process of two-way opening-up of the capital market in China’s mainland”, Gui said that recently, the 5th Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee worked out the proposals for the “13th Five-year Plan”, the “40 provisions on financial reform” in Shanghai Free Trade Zone and other important documents, and President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang made specific requirements for the development of the capital market on different occasions. According to general judgment, there will be abundant opportunities for reform, innovation and opening-up in a period at present and in the future. The SSE will firmly seize the historic opportunities, further improve the internationalization of the SSE market and speed up the two-way opening-up of the capital market in China’s mainland. First, on the basis of summing up the first year operation, the SSE will vigorously optimize and improve the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, and give better play to its demonstration effect as the interconnectivity model for exchanges in the same time zone; second, the SSE will be active in advancing the smooth opening and stable operation of the CEINEX, which is co-founded by the SSE, Deutsche Borse and the China Financial Futures Exchange (CFFEX), so as to explore new ways and paths for the internationalization of the capital market in China’s mainland; third, the SSE will spare no efforts in launching the international financial assets trading platform of Shanghai Free Trade Zone, so as to adapt to the demands of the investors at home and abroad and improve the trading rules and trading mechanisms on the basis of learning the experience in the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect; fourthly, the SSE will energetically implement the achievements made at the meeting of the heads of China and the UK, study the launch of the Shanghai-London Stock Connect and, explore the new modes of cooperation for interconnectivity of exchanges in different time zones.   Sources: Shanghai Securities News

CEINEX Launched with RMB Products’ Debut
18 Nov 2015
China Europe International Exchange (CEINEX) was launched in Frankfurt, the financial capital of Germany, on November 18, as a joint venture of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), Deutsche Borse Group and the China Financial Futures Exchange (CFFEX).   The opening of the new exchange marked the official operation of a European offshore RMB-denominated securities market co-built by China and Germany. This is both an important step in RMB internationalization and a milestone of the internationalization strategy of the SSE and the CFFEX.   At 9:00 a.m. CET, Co-CEO Chen Han and Executive Director Wu Jianhong, both CEINEX executive board members, opened the new market place with a centuries-old opening bell ringing at the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. The launch ceremony took place in the presence of more than 80 government and trade representatives from China and Germany. Shi Mingde, the Chinese ambassador to Germany, Huang Hongyuan, SSE President, and Carsten Kengeter, CEO of Deutsche Borse Group, addressed the opening ceremony and extended their congratulations on the listing of the first products on the CEINEX.   At market launch, the CEINEX offered ETFs and a broad range of RMB-denominated bonds. Bank of China International and China Construction Bank International respectively partnered with Commerzbank to issue a RMB-denominated ETF product to trace A-Share Index in China. In addition, a RMB-denominated financial bond issued by Bank of China was offered at the launch. Besides, 12 ETFs related to the Chinese market and 180-plus RMB-denominated bonds listed on Deutsche Borse will be transferred onto the trading platform of the CEINEX to ensure sustained liquidity.   The original intention of the establishment of the CEINEX was to offer products and services with underlying RMB-denominated assets to European and worldwide investors. The CEINEX will mainly offer securities spot products denominated and settled in RMB at the beginning of its running, before the time is ripe for listing financial derivatives.   Chen Han said, “We aim to steadily expand our product offering to further increase the attractiveness of the CEINEX for international investors, and we’re very pleased to launch all-round cooperation with market participants to promote the development of offshore RMB products in Europe.”     　　   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Modifying Article 38 of “SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Margin Trading and Securities Lending (Revised in 2015)”
13 Nov 2015
　　Shang Zheng Fa (2015) No. 89 Document All Market Participants,   Upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has modified Article 38 of the “SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Margin Trading and Securities Lending (Revised in 2015)”, in a bid to further strengthen the risk management of margin trading and securities lending business and propel the business’s long-term and steady growth. Details of the modification are as follows:   “Article 38 The margin rate of margin-based purchase by an investor should not be lower than 100%.   The margin rate of margin-based purchase refers to the ratio of the margin paid by an investor for margin-based purchase to the margin-based purchase amount, and the formula is: margin rate of margin-based purchase = margin / (number of margin-based purchase × purchase price) ×100%.   The contracts of margin trading and securities lending, unsettled prior to the implementation of the modification to Article 38, and their rollovers shall be subject to the regulations before the modification.   All market participants are required to earnestly prepare for relevant business and technical systems in response to the adjustment to the margin rate of margin-based purchase, so as to ensure smooth and stable operation of the business.   The modification shall come into force on November 23, 2015.   Shanghai Stock Exchange November 13, 2015

SSE, MOEX Hold “Forum on Russian Capital Market”, Ink MOU
06 Nov 2015
On November 6, 2015, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and Moscow Exchange (MOEX) co-held the “Forum on Russian Capital Market”, which was attended by nearly 150 representatives of the central banks, regulators, exchanges, securities dealers and investment institutions of the two countries. In-depth discussions were carried out on “interactions of Chinese and Russian financial markets”, “infrastructures of the Russian financial market”, “investment opportunities on Russian bond market” and other topics at the forum. The forum also saw Huang Hongyuan, SSE President, and Alexei Kudrin, Chairman of the MOEX Supervisory Board, sign the cooperation memorandum of understanding (MOU) on behalf of the two exchanges, with the contents including further understanding each other’s market, enhancing regular and institutionalized information exchange, strengthening business contacts and upgrading regulatory standards. The MOU was signed in a bid to cement the exchanges and cooperation between the two exchanges, further improve the cooperation mechanism and environment for the capital markets in the two countries, enrich the products and services provided by the exchanges for the investors, and strengthen the ties of the financial markets in the two nations. Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Mobilization Conference for Special Inspection on SSE Held
03 Nov 2015
The mobilization conference for No.7 Central Inspection Team’s special inspection on the SSE is held. The No.7 Central Inspection Team, according to the unified deployment of the central authority, recently settled in the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) for a special inspection. On the afternoon of November 2, the mobilization conference for No. 7 Central Inspection Team’s special inspection on the SSE was held. Party Chief Gui Minjie presided over the conference and made a mobilization speech, while Liu Zu, Head of No. 7 Central Inspection Team, delivered a speech for the special inspection to be carried out. Officials of the Central Inspection Leadership Team Office put forward requirements for the inspection work. Also attending the conference were the inspection team’s deputy heads Dong Hanying, Wei Qiang and Hu Wenrong and all members as well as the leadership members of the SSE Party Committee. Heads of relevant departments, companies and units were present as attendees. Liu Zu said that inspection is a major duty endowed by the Party Constitution, a strategic system arrangement for in-Party supervision, and a significant means to manage the Party strictly in an all-round way. Since the 18th CPC National Congress, the CPC Central Committee has attached high importance to the inspection work. Standing Committee Meetings of the CPC Central Committee Political Bureau have heard reports on every rounds of inspection work, and General Secretary Xi Jinping have delivered major speeches every time. Besides, an array of major decisions and deployments have been made to strengthen and improve the inspection work, the guideline for the central inspection work has been fixed, and the newly-amended inspection rules have been promulgated and implemented, which has given a direction for furthering the inspection work. The Central Inspection Leadership Team has adhered to the central authority’s deployments, continuously innovated organizational mechanisms and work methods, and rigorously implemented all the work items. The inspection work has been consistently propelled with an obvious effect achieved. Practices showed that the guideline for the central inspection was completely correct, and the inspection work, which accords with the aspirations of the Party and the people, is a major platform to boost the building of the Party's work style and of a clean government as well as the anti-corruption campaign, serving as a key way for a combination of in-Party supervision and mass supervision and a significant measure for higher Party organizations to supervise over lower ones. It has provided powerful support for managing the Party strictly in an all-round way. Liu also said that managing the Party strictly in an all-round way is an inevitable requirement for realizing the Party’s historical mission, and its core is to strengthen the Party’s leadership. The Party has one Party Constitution only, which are valid for all the Party members and Party organizations. There are no exceptions for adhering to the Party’s leadership. All the Party organizations, Party members and Party cadres should work according to the Party Constitution and the Party rules. We should adhere to all the lines, guidelines and polices made by the central authority, implement all the requirements for managing the Party strictly and abide by all the Party disciplines and regulations. The SSE Party Committee members and Party members, leaders and cadres at all levels should follow the requirements in terms of ideology, duty and measures put forward by the central authority, and seriously fulfill the responsibility of managing the Party strictly in an all-round way. Besides, leaders and cadres should play a leading role to maintain seriousness and authority of the Party Constitution and disciplines, and dare to shoulder responsibilities, take seriously and fight. We should assume our responsibilities, consolidate our stances and further our disciplines, awaken the awareness of the Party Constitution, disciplines, regulations and organizations. Efforts should be made to solve an array of problems, such as carelessness, sluggishness and softness in managing the Party as well as deficiencies of main-body responsibility and supervisory responsibility. We should ensure that the Party should consistently play a leading role in the socialist cause with Chinese features. Liu finally stressed that the inspection team will completely fulfill the duties endowed by the Party Constitution, seriously implement the inspection rules, focus on managing the Party strictly in an all-round way, adhere to the Party’s political, honest, organizational, mass, work and life disciplines, and strengthen the “Four Efforts to Inspect Violations of Laws and Disciplines” for deterrence. In our work, the Party’s leadership should be stressed to check whether the inspected Party organizations, leaders and cadres seriously learn, abide by, implement and maintain the Party Constitution, work strictly according to the Party Constitution; whether they adhere to the ideals, beliefs and tenets and firmly erect “Confidence in Line, Theory and System”; whether they implement the Party’s lines, guidelines and policies and the requirements at the 18th CPC National Congress and the previous plenums of the 18th CPC Central Committee, accord with the CPC Central Committee, ensure the smooth operation of the central authority’s policies and decrees and maintain the Party’s centralization and unification; whether they fulfill the main-body responsibility and supervisory responsibility for managing the Party strictly in an all-round way, consistently cement the building of the Party and give full play to the Party’s role as a leading core. Furthermore, the inspection team would, in light of the inspected units’ realities, focus on key persons and issues and major problems, seek for in-depth reasons for common problems and give solutions and suggestions for boosting the reform in an all-round manner. Head of the Central Inspection Leadership Team Office stressed that, managing the Party strictly in an all-round way should rely on, cover and govern the whole Party. Disciplinary construction should be the fundamental policy for strict management of the Party in an all-round way. With the unswerving leadership of the Central Party Committee, the central inspection team has carried out 7 rounds of inspections at 118 localities, authorities and units, covering 31 provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities, and Xinjiang production and construction corps, and 55 key back-bone state-owned enterprises subject to the Central Party Committee, in a bid to manage the Party in an all-round way as a sharp sword. Party organizations of all levels and Party member leaders and cadres of the SSE should learn about the new requirements of the inspection work of the Central Party Committee in an in-depth way from the strategic height of strictly managing the Party in an all-round way, and respect the Party Constitution and the Party Disciplines. Besides, the strong ideology drive for strict governance of the Party in an all-round way should be concentrated and requirements of strictly governing the Party should be implemented on the whole. Moreover, the work guidance of the inspection should be implemented unswervingly, in a bid to promote all-coverage of the inspections and the establishment of an efficient mechanism for deterrence, impossibility and refusal of corruption, and provide staunch guarantee for coordinate promotion of the strategic layout of “4 Overall Constructions”. The central inspection team, designated by the Central Party Committee, assumes the authority and creditability of the Central Party Committee. Party members and cadres at all levels of the SSE should have a correct understanding and treat the inspectional supervision from political height, learn to implement the inspection rules, enhance the self-consciousness and firmness in receiving supervision, as well as fully understand the disciplinary requirements, directly face the problems, reflect the problems in an honest and impartial way, with full confidence, staunch support, complete cooperation, and coordinated supervision for the work of the inspection team, in order to ensure the successful completion of the inspection work designated by the Central Party Committee. Gui Minjie stressed that, awareness should be lifted for proper implementation of the requirements of General Secretary Xi Jinping’s key speech and the work arrangement of the inspection team. The inspection, as a key measure on implementing the requirements of managing the Party in an all-round way and governing the Party by the Party, is also a key form for strengthening in-Party supervision. Xi’s key speech again deeply showed the unswerving determination of the Central Party Committee in punishing corruption and constant rectification of “4 Ill Working Styles”, as well as the clear attitude and determination in overall construction of clean politics. The recently issued “2 Rules and 1 Criterion” will serve as the basic principles for strengthening building of the Party's work style and of a clean government in the new times. The inspection on the SSE by the central inspection team will vigorously promote better completion of our work in various aspects. All cadres and staff members should keep consistency with the Central Party Committee in ideology, politics and action, attach great importance to the inspection work and accept the inspectional supervision voluntarily. Gui Minjie said, we should go all out to support and ensure smooth implementation of the inspection work. All members of the SSE should actively and accurately carry out various coordinating and ensuring work on the whole in strict accordance with the requirements of the central inspection team, in a bid to provide a sound environment for the work of the inspection team. Moreover, the strong Party spirit and high sense of responsibility in politics should be taken for impartial and authentic information provision for the inspection team without hiding of any problems. This inspection should serve as an opportunity to transform the procedure of accepting examination to the process of strengthening and improving the SSE’s building of the Party's work style and of administration, in a bid to further strengthen the political self-consciousness in managing the Party and governing the Party by the Party in a strict way, substantially perform the major responsibility of the Party Committee and the monitoring responsibility of the disciplinary committee. The mutual promotion of civilization in terms of spirit and material should be adhered to, and reform and innovation should be encouraged. Besides, the requirements of the 5th Plenum of the 18th CPC Central Committee should be implemented, and work measures on all aspects should be strengthened. In addition, all systems and mechanisms should be improved, in order to promote the sound and stable development of the capital market. It is learnt that, the central inspection team will work at the SSE for 2 months. During this period (November 2 to December 29), the special hotline of 021-62125492 and postal mail of Shanghai Post 052-002 mail box will be set. The inspection team will answer the phone call from 08:00 to 20:00. According to the work rules of the inspection, the central inspection team will mainly accept the letters, phone calls and visits reporting the problems of the SSE leadership group and its members, heads of its subordinate Party organization leadership groups and leaders and cadres at key positions, with emphasis on going against disciplines in terms of politics, incorruptibility, organization, mass, work and life-related issues. As for the reports outside acceptance scope of the inspection, they will be transferred to the unit subject to the inspection and relevant authorities according to the regulations for handling. Source: www.ccdi.gov.cn

China, Germany Ink Agreement to Set up Exchange
29 Oct 2015
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), Deutsche Borse Group and the China Financial Futures Exchange (CFFEX) today sign in Beijing a tripartite shareholders agreement on setting up a joint venture, which is witnessed by Chinese Premier Li Keqiang and German Chancellor Angela Merkel. The set-up of the joint venture one year after the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect shows the determination and courage of China to push forward the two-way opening-up of the capital market and the internationalization of RMB. The company will be named China Europe International Exchange AG (CEINEX). According to the agreement, the SSE, Deutsche Borse and the CFFEX will jointly invest 40%, 40% and 20% respectively of a total fund of RMB200 million to set up the new company. The company will be headquartered in Frankfurt, Germany. Gui Minjie, Chairman of the SSE, will serve as Chairman of the company’s 1st supervisory board, and Carsten Kengeter, CEO of Deutsche Borse Group, will act as Vice Chairman. In early 2013, the executives of the SSE and Deutsche Borse proposed to set up an offshore RMB trading platform in Europe, and the CFFEX joined in the program later. After two years of research and discussion, the tripartite cooperation plan gradually took shape and was supported and recognized by the regulators and the governments of the two countries. The plan was officially announced at the China-Germany High-Level Fiscal and Financial Dialogue held on March 17, 2015. The establishment of the company marks the implementation of the important achievement of the dialog. The CEINEX has been designed to develop a trading and pricing center for offshore RMB assets in Europe, meet the demands of the investors for financing and investing in RMB, create a comprehensive risk management and service platform, and function as important overseas extension and complementation of the domestic capital market. At the early stage, the CEINEX is planned to focus on developing the spot products of securities, which will be denominated and settled in RMB. The financial derivatives will be listed when the conditions are ripe. The first spot products are expected to be officially listed in Frankfurt on November 18. With regard to the signing of the agreement and the official establishment of the joint venture, Gui said, “The establishment of CEINEX marks a new attempt of the SSE in internationalization, as well as another important symbol of the opening-up of China’s capital market. With Chinese and European economies increasingly integrated, we believe that the CEINEX will provide Chinese and European enterprises with more convenient financial services, meet the demand of overseas investors for investing in RMB-denominated securities products, and play an important role in the process of the opening-up of China’s capital market and the internationalization of RMB.” “The establishment of CEINEX, a major milestone in the strategic cooperation among our three exchanges and a major step forward in the internationalization of RMB, provides a sound basis for the joint development of the capital markets in China and Europe. We feel very much honored to participate in and contribute to the development,” said Kengeter. “Aimed at advancing the opening-up of China’s capital market and internationalization of RMB, the CEINEX is of great strategic significance. The three exchanges have now embarked on a new journey, and will make concerted efforts to develop the CEINEX into a trading platform with international competitiveness,” said Zhang Shenfeng, Chairman of the CFFEX. About Shanghai Stock Exchange The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) was founded on November 26, 1990. It is China’s largest and the world’s third largest stock exchange. By October 20, 2015, there had been 1,071 companies listed on the SSE, with the total market capitalization of the stocks reaching RMB28.9 trillion, ranking No. 4 in the world, and the turnover and the raised funds ranking No. 2 and No. 1 respectively among the world’s major exchanges. As China’s first and currently only exchange with the complete product line, the SSE boasts the products on both the spot market (stocks) and the derivatives market (stock options). The SSE is the exchange in China’s mainland with the highest level of openness. The “Shanghai–Hong Kong Stock Connect” trading mechanism launched in 2014 has made the SSE the only stock exchange in China’s mainland that has linked up with the overseas market through the trading mechanism. The SSE is transforming from a large sized blue chip market in the traditional sense to a multi-level market. In 2014, the SSE received the approval to enter the market for small-sized companies issuing fewer than 50 million shares. Besides, the SSE is planning to launch the board of strategic emerging industries so as to enter a more extensive market for innovative companies. About China Financial Futures Exchange With the approval of the State Council and the authorization of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the China Financial Futures Exchange (CFFEX) was jointly founded by the Shanghai Futures Exchange, the Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange, the Dalian Commodity Exchange, the Shanghai Stock Exchange and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange on September 8, 2006 in Shanghai. So far, the CFFEX has listed a total of five products, namely, CSI 300 index futures, SSE 50 index futures, CSI 500 index futures, 5-year treasury bond futures and 10-year treasury bond futures, and is vigorously researching and developing the stock index option, foreign exchange futures, interest rate futures and other products. About Deutsche Börse Group As a world’s leading provider of services in securities and derivatives, Deutsche Börse Group offers extensive products and services to issuers, investors, intermediaries and data vendors. The businesses of the group cover the entire process chain such as trading, clearing, settlement and custody. In addition, the group also provides market data, indices, research, and development and operation of information technology systems. Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Soliciting Opinions on “SSE Detailed Rules for Management on Program Trading (Draft for Comment)”
09 Oct 2015
SSE Announcement [2015] No. 27 Document   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has drafted the “SSE Detailed Rules for Management on Program Trading (Draft for Comment)” (see attachment), in a bid to implement the requirements of the China Securities Regulatory Commission for strengthening management on program trading in securities and futures markets, standardize program trading, safeguard normal trading order, and protect investors’ legal rights and interests. The SSE hereby solicits opinions from the public.   Please send your opinions or suggestions to the SSE by e-mail before November 8, 2015. E-mail: member@sse.com.cn   Shanghai Stock Exchange October 9, 2015

Paper Solicitation for Special Subject of “Bond Market Development, Legal Construction” for “On Securities Laws”
28 Sep 2015
As the decision made by the 3rd Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee proposes to “develop and standardize the bond market", bolstered by a variety of factors such as the reform dividend, the market innovation and the steady monetary policy, China’s bond market has recorded rapid development, greatly increased the proportion of direct financing and effectively facilitated the development of the real economy. To promote the healthy development of the bond market and strengthen the legal construction of and the legal research in the bond market, the “On Securities Law”, or collected papers from Chinese Social Sciences Citation Index (CSSCI), is soliciting papers from experts and scholars in the theory and practice circles worldwide on the special subject of “Bond Market Development and Legal Construction”, with the outstanding papers to be published. Contributors should pay attention to the following issues: I. Scope of Papers The scope of the contributions wanted include: research in legislation for the bond market, research in regulatory practice of the bond market, study on law for innovation in the bond market, research in typical cases of the bond market, and research in the legal systems of the overseas bond markets. The subjects for reference are as follows (not limited to these subjects): 1. Bond products, range of securities and rational division in functions of the “Company Law” and the “Securities Law” 2. Uniformity of bond rules and regulatory system research 3. Research in regulation and institutional innovation in public offering of bonds 4. Research in the conditions and the examination system for public offering of bonds 5. Research in the regulation of private offering of bonds and the legal system for qualified investors 6. Shelf offering and reform in the system of corporate bond issuance 7. Restructuring and improvement of the bond legal system in the context of revision to the “Securities Law” 8. Bond trading innovation and regulatory system research 9. Legal research in the bond market development and the bond issuance and trading systems 10. Research in the system of bond registration, custody and settlement 11. Legal research in the bond market development and the registration and settlement system 12. Research in the bond repurchase and guarantee system 13. Research in the system of issuance, trading and regulation of assets backed securities 14. Research in the legal system and structure of information disclosure in compliance with the essence of bond 15. Research in legal issues related to capital account opening and internationalization of the bond market 16. Research in legal issues of self-regulation of the bond market 17. Research in credit risk mitigation tools and the bond risk prevention system 18. Research in the legal system of bond credit-enhancement measures and institutions 19. Research in the legal issues of control and response mechanism of default risks for bonds 20. Research in bond dispute settlement mechanism 21. Research in bondholders’ meeting and investors’ protection system 22. Research in the protection system for bond trustees and investors 23. Research in regulation over bond underwriting behaviors and the obligations and responsibilities of the underwriting agencies 24. Research in regulation over bond rating and the obligations and responsibilities of the rating agencies 25. Research in the obligations and responsibilities of bond issuance, information disclosure and lawyers 26. Research in the obligations and responsibilities of bond issuance, information disclosure and accountants 27. Research in investor suitability and the rights remedy mechanism of the bond market 28. Research in regulation over and responsibilities of fraudulent issuance in the bond market 29. Research in regulation over profit delivery and violations in the bond market 30. Research in regulation over and responsibilities of insider trading, market manipulation and other violations in the bond market 31. Research in cross-market regulation over spots, futures and funds with bond as underlying II. Deadline   December 31, 2015   III. Requirements for Papers   1. Scientific argumentation, sufficient evidence, rigorous logic, clear-cut structure, and fluent expression are expected from the contributions. The market-oriented contributions with high academic quality and practical value are especially expected. About 10,000 Chinese characters are perfect for each contribution, while extraordinarily outstanding ones, however, will not be subject to the limit. 2. Please send your contributions, which comply with the national regulations on copyright, the generally accepted academic standards, and the requirements specified in the "Layout Style" of the “On Securities Law” (Please refer to the “On Securities Law” sub-column under the “Research & Publication” column on the official website of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) [www.sse.com.cn], or the “On Securities Law” book), to zqfy@sse.com.cn (Confirmation by phone after e-mailing is advised). 3. Anonymous review system will be adopted for the journal. No personal information should appear in the papers, and a writer could specify his or her general information (including name, birth date, place of work, academic degree, professional title, research fruits), contact methods (address, postal code, telephone, and e-mail), and whether the relevant paper is a research fruit, separately on another page attached. 4. The editorial office of the journal reserves the right to make literary and technical amendments to the contributions. Articles published in the journal do not represent the stance of the SSE. Authors of the articles shall take all legal responsibilities in that regard. Except those with special statements, all the opinions expressed in the articles are personal and have nothing to do with the authors' positions or employers. 5. Contribution to the “On Securities Law” will be viewed as authorizing the journal to include the papers into the “China Academic Journal Network Publishing Database”, CNKI Series Database, the Journal Database of Peking University Center for Legal Information (chinalawinfo.com), Wanfang Database, and other academic resource databases recognized by the journal as well as the SSE official website. The royalties paid by the journal to the authors include the copyright royalties of the above databases. Please specify any objections in your contributions so that the journal can make arrangements accordingly. 6. Contacts: SSE Legal Affairs Department Wu Junqiao, Tel: 021-68805400; Chang Ming, Tel: 021-68806680 Zhao Hongchun, Tel: 021-68812792 Shanghai Stock Exchange September 28, 2015

Notice of Releasing “Business Guidelines for Information Disclosure of Co-investment by Listed Companies and Private Funds”
11 Sep 2015
All market participants,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), according to the “SSE Stock Listing Rules” and other rules, has formulated the “Business Guidelines for Information Disclosure of Co-investment by Listed Companies and Private Funds”, in order to standardize the information disclosure of co-investment by listed companies and private funds, and enhance pertinence and effectiveness of the information disclosure. The business guidelines are hereby released and will come into force on the release day.   Shanghai Stock Exchange September 11, 2015

Notice of Releasing Nos. 1-7 SSE Guidance Documents of Industry Information Disclosure
11 Sep 2015
All listed companies,   According to laws and regulations, the “SSE Stock Listing Rules” and other rules, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has revised the “No. 2 SSE Guidance Document of Information Disclosure of Real Estate Industry for Listed Companies” and the “No. 3 SSE Guidance Document of Information Disclosure of Coal Industry for Listed Companies”, and worked out the “No. 1 SSE Guidance Document of Industry Information Disclosure of for Listed Companies – General Regulations”, the “No. 4 SSE Guidance Document of Information Disclosure of Electric Power Industry for Listed Companies”, the “No. 5 SSE Guidance Document of Information Disclosure of Retail Industry for Listed Companies”, the “No. 6 SSE Guidance Document of Information Disclosure of Automobile Manufacturing Industry for Listed Companies” and the “No. 7 SSE Guidance Document of Information Disclosure of Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Industry for Listed Companies” (see attachments), in a bid to guide the listed companies to disclose industry operation information and enhance effectiveness of their information disclosure.   The above 7 guidance documents of industry information disclosure are officially released, and will come into force on October 1, 2015.   Shanghai Stock Exchange September 11, 2015

Notice of Soliciting Opinions on Regulations of Circuit Breaker Mechanism for Index
07 Sep 2015
　　SSE Announcement [2015] No. 25 Document   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and the China Financial Futures Exchange (CFFEX), upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, plan to usher into a circuit breaker mechanism for index under the precondition that the existing price limit mechanism for the individual stocks is kept, in a bid to control the risk of dramatic fluctuations in the market, further perfect the trading mechanism in China’s securities market, maintain the market order, protect the investors’ rights and interests and boost the sound and sustainable growth of the securities market. The general arrangement for the circuit breaker mechanism for index is as follows: when the daily trading limit of CSI 300 Index reaches a threshold value, trading of all the stocks, convertible bonds, detachable bonds, stock options and stock-related products on the SSE and the SZSE will be suspended, and that of all the stock index futures contracts on the CFFEX will be suspended as well; after the time for the trading suspension expires, trading will be resumed or the market will be closed subject to different conditions. The key points and main thoughts for the circuit breaker mechanism for index are as follows: 1. Taking CSI 300 Index as the benchmark index for the circuit breaker mechanism. The main thoughts are as follows: first, cross-market index is better than single-market index. The former boasts higher representativeness as it can more comprehensively reflect the general fluctuations of the A-share market, while the latter mainly shows a certain market’s operation; second, priority goes to CSI 300 Index in the selection of all the cross-market indexes. Currently, the cross-market indexes familiar with the investors in the A-share market include CSI 300 Index (with most of its constituent stocks being stocks of medium-and-large-sized market values) and CSI 500 Index (with most of its constituent stocks being stocks of small-and-medium-sized market values). The market capitalization coverage of CSI 300 Index and the number and scale of the products tracking the index are all higher than those of CSI 500 Index. 2. Two threshold values, 5% and 7%, for the circuit breaker mechanism are set for both upper and lower price limits, and each value could be reached for only one time everyday at most. The main thoughts are as follows: first, the first threshold value of 5% could meet both needs of setting a cooling-off period and maintaining normal trading; though the second one of 7% is seldom reached, it should be also considered against major abnormities; second, two-way circuit breaker mechanism is more conducive to curbing over-trading and controlling market fluctuations. As the domestic market is at the “emerging and transitional” stage, with most of the investors being small and medium-sized retail investors, dramatic two-way price fluctuations have lead to not only panic slumps but also over-speed rises, including short-term dramatic rises caused by accidents. Thus, when the market encounters frenetic rises, the circuit breaker mechanism is needed to stabilize the market sentiments, prevent the investors’ over-reactions to the rises and give more time for the investors to further confirm whether the current prices are reasonable or not. 3. Gears are set to fix the time of circuit breaker for the index. When the first threshold value of 5% is reached, trading will be suspended for 30 minutes, after which a call auction will be held and then the intra-day trading will continue. If the first threshold value of 5% is reached at or after 14:30, or the second threshold value of 7% is reached at any time of the whole day, trading will be suspended till the market closing. If the circuit breaker mechanism lasts till the market closing at 15:00 with the trading not resumed, relevant securities’ closing prices will be the weighted average prices of all the transactions (including the last one) within one minute before the last transaction on the very day, while the closing prices of the option contracts will still be subject to relevant rules. 4. Special time intervals are arranged. First, the circuit breaker mechanism will not be implemented at the stage of call auction of the market opening; if the index at the market opening triggers the first threshold value of 5%, the circuit breaker mechanism will be implemented from 09:30, and trading will be suspended for 30 minutes; if the index at the market opening triggers the second threshold value of 7%, the circuit breaker mechanism will be implemented from 09:30, and trading will be suspended till the market closing. Second, if there is not enough time in the morning for the implementation of the circuit breaker mechanism, supplement will be made after the market opening in the afternoon, and the market closure time at noon will not be included into the time for the implementation of the circuit breaker mechanism, so that the investors could adjust their orders. Third, the circuit breaker mechanism is valid in the whole day. Given that the market-closing stage of the domestic A-share market is apt to encounter irrational dramatic fluctuations, the circuit breaker mechanism will still be applicable at the market-closing stage. Fourth, on the stock index futures’ delivery days, the circuit breaker mechanism will be implemented only in the morning, and the trading will be resumed in the afternoon whether the trading suspension is triggered by the threshold value of 5% or 7%, so as to calculate the delivery and settlement prices of the stock index futures for a smooth delivery. 5. The scope of the circuit breaker mechanism for the index and the linkage of futures and spot. When the circuit breaker mechanism is implemented, trading of all the stocks, funds, convertible bonds, detachable bonds, stock options and stock-related products on the SSE and the SZSE is suspended, and the specific securities products involved in the implementation of the circuit breaker mechanism will be subject to relevant announcements. And trading of all the stock index futures products will be synchronously suspended (including stock futures products of CSI 300 Index, CSI 500 Index and SSE 50 Index), while that of treasury bond futures will still be traded normally. 6. The arrangement for the circuit breaker mechanism for the index and trading suspension. If trading resumption is needed after a listed company applies for trading suspension of its shares or newly-listed shares encounter in-session temporary trading suspension, and the planned trading resumption time coincides with that of the implementation of the circuit breaker mechanism, trading will be resumed after the time of the implementation of the circuit breaker mechanism expires. If the trading suspension time of relevant stock does not expire after the implementation of the circuit breaker mechanism, the trading suspension will continue. The SSE, the SZSE and the CFFEX will, according to the above key points, respectively supplement special regulations (see attachments) on the implementation of the circuit breaker mechanism in their relevant trading rules, and they hereby solicit opinions from the public. Please send your opinions or suggestions to the relevant exchanges by e-mail before September 21, 2015.   Shanghai Stock Exchange: tradingdata@sse.com.cn Shenzhen Stock Exchange: jygz-hyb@szse.cn China Financial Futures Exchange: qzqhsa@cffex.com.cn   　　 Shanghai Stock Exchange Shenzhen Stock Exchange China Financial Futures Exchange   September 7, 2015

Notice on Modifying Article 15 of “SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Margin Trading and Securities Lending (Revised in 2015)”
03 Aug 2015
　　 　　Shang Zheng Fa (2015) No. 69 Document All Market Participants,   Upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has modified Article 15 of the “SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Margin Trading and Securities Lending (Revised in 2015)”, in a bid to cement risk management on the business of margin trading and securities lending, propel standardized growth of the business and maintain normal order of the market. The modified article is as follows: “Article 15 After short sale, the client may, starting from the next trading day, repay the financed securities to the member by purchasing securities, or directly repay the securities. Repaying securities by purchasing securities refers to the way that the client applies for purchasing securities through its credit securities account, and the securities purchased are directly transferred to the member’s securities account for securities lending in the settlement. For the way of directly repaying the financed securities, it will be subject to the agreement between the member and the client as well as the relevant regulations of the depository and clearing institution designated by the SSE. If trading suspension is imposed on the securities of the client’s short sale, the client may, according to the agreement, repay the financed securities to the member in cash or in other ways.” The modified article shall come into force since the date of promulgation.   Shanghai Stock Exchange August 3, 2015

SSE Expands Financing Channels for Securities Companies
10 Jul 2015
Recently, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) decided to expand the range of the pilot for short-term corporate bonds business of securities companies to all securities companies, and allow securities companies to carry out the business of securitizing income right of assets of margin trading and securities lending, so as to further expand the financing channels for securities companies to support their steady business development.   To support the expansion of financing channels for securities companies, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has actively taken measures to promote the implementation of the above-mentioned two businesses. On the one hand, the SSE has effectively promoted the development of the business of short-term corporate bonds of securities companies. Since the CSRC released the notice on pilot of 20 securities companies issuing short-term corporate bonds last year, the SSE has vigorously promoted consultation, guidance, filing, listing, transfer and other work in the business, and will include the short-term corporate bonds in the management of business of non-public issuance of corporate bonds in the near future, continuously providing securities companies with short-term financing services. So far, a total of 13 securities companies, including China Securities Finance Corporation Limited, have applied to the SSE for the issuance of short-term corporate bonds, with up to RMB146.4 billion filed. Specifically, the issuance of 27 short-term corporate bond products has been completed, with the total issuance amount of RMB91.4 billion and the weighted average interest rate at 5.35 %.   Since the range of the pilot was expanded to all securities companies, the securities companies have been responding in an active manner, and many of them have contacted the SSE for information related to the procedures of the business. Expressing vigorous support for the expansion of the business pilot, the SSE will improve the efficiency in managing and handling the project applications. For the projects with complete materials, the SSE will designate special responsible persons and issue a no-objection letter on listing and transfer in five working days, so as to energetically promote the all-around development of the business for short-term corporate bonds of securities companies.   On the other hand, the SSE has spared no effort in promoting the implementation of the business for securitizing the assets of margin trading and securities lending. In recent years, the securities companies have seen the market size of the business for margin trading and securities lending grow rapidly. By the end of June this year, the financing balance on the two stock markets in Shanghai and Shenzhen had amounted to nearly RMB2 trillion, with the financing balance of the SSE standing at RMB1.27 trillion. Overall, with well developed measures for risk control, the businesses for margin trading and securities lending belong to high-quality assets of the securities companies. The asset securitization of margin trading and securities lending refers to the asset securitization of the creditor’ right of the capital financed out in the margin trading and securities lending business of the securities companies, which will vitalize the high-quality stock assets of the securities companies, provide financing channels featuring compliance and low cost for the securities companies and promote the virtuous cycle of the margin trading and securities lending business.   Earlier, under the guidance of the CSRC, the SSE had discussed the feasibility for asset securitization of margin trading and securities lending with relevant securities companies and made a mature project program. Since the CSRC announced that the securities companies are allowed to do the asset securitization business of margin trading and securities lending, several securities companies ranking high in financing balance of margin trading and securities lending have contacted the SSE for information related to the business procedures and the key points of the program, vigorously preparing for the asset securitization project. The SSE will energetically support the securities companies in developing their asset securitization business of margin trading and securities lending, help them improve the project program, elevate the efficiency in accepting the applications for listing and transfer, and control the risks in the development of the business.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice on Issues of Shareholding Increase by SSE-listed Companies’ Shareholders, Their Concerted Actors, Directors, Supervisors, Senior Managers
08 Jul 2015
　　Shang Zheng Fa (2015) No. 66 Document All listed companies,   To support shareholding increase by listed companies’ shareholders and their concerted actors as well as stabilize the capital market and protect investors’ interests, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby makes notification on relevant issues as follows:   1. Relevant regulations in Article 9 of “Code of Conduct for Shareholding Increase by Listed Companies’ Shareholders and Their Concerted Actors” and Subparagraphs (1), (2) and (4) of Article 4.5 of “Code of Conduct of Controlling Shareholder and Actual Controller of Listed Company” published by the SSE shall not be applicable to the following situation: a listed company’s shareholders, controlling shareholders and their concerted actors holding more than 30% of its shares increase shareholding and promise not to lessen shareholding in the next 6 months, when stock price of the company has accumulatively dropped by over 30% for 10 consecutive trading days. 2. Restrictive conditions of “having been listed for more than 1 year” and “after one year since the date of occurrence of the above-mentioned facts” in Subparagraph (1) of Article 2 of “Code of Conduct for Shareholding Increase by Listed Companies’ Shareholders and Their Concerted Actors” shall not be applicable to the following situation: a listed company's shareholders and their concerted actors holding 30% or more of its shares increase holding of not more than 2% of its issued shares every 12 months. 3. The SSE-listed companies’ shareholders and their concerted actors, directors, supervisors and senior managers are encouraged to stabilize stock prices by shareholding increase or in other ways when the companies’ stock prices slump.   Shanghai Stock Exchange July 8, 2015

Notice of Matters Related to SSE Bond Projects Application System Accepting Application Materials for Listing, Transfer of Asset-backed Securities
07 Jul 2015
　　Shang Zheng Han (2015) No. 1048 Document All managers of special asset-backed programs:   To promote the development of the bond market and improve the efficiency of accepting the applications for listing and transfer of asset-backed securities, starting from July 7, 2015, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will accept the applications for listing and transfer of asset-backed securities through the bond projects application system (the “Application System” for short), and the related matters are notified as follows:   1. The Application System is available at https://120.204.69.28/bond and https://116.228.174.180/bond. The managers may submit the application materials for listing and transfer of asset-backed securities to the SSE through the Application System. 2. The managers shall log in the Application System by the digital certificate. They should, according to the development of the business, apply for the digital certificate for the project personnel, and the specific procedures are available in the attachment. The managers’ institutions which have obtained the digital certificate in applying for corporate bond projects do not need to re-apply. 3. After logging in the Application System, the managers shall complete the user registration and permission settings according to the user's manual, and accomplish the project application by filling in the project information and submitting the application documents according to the requirements. 4. The managers shall be prepared for the use of the Application System as soon as possible, and provide feedback for the problems in the process of utilizing the system in a timely manner. The managers who cannot make online project application prior to August 7, 2015 may still submit the paper-based materials in their application. After August 7, 2015, in principle, all project applications shall be made through the Application System. 5. The managers shall set up and improve the measures for risk control and the internal management systems, carry out management for the users and system operations in their institutions, intensify the information management, make sure of the authenticity, accuracy and completeness of project application documents, and ensure that the application documents have passed the companies’ internal risk control or compliance examination, with the application to the SSE approved. 6. The SSE has the intellectual property ownership of the filling template for the project application in the Application System, and the managers shall effectively support the protection of the filling template and other intellectual properties. 7. In the course of using the Application System, advisory information is available in the following ways: QQ group for online consultation: chat group of bond issuance and listing (group number: 205530178) Hotline for technical support: 400-900-3600   Shanghai Stock Exchange July 7, 2015

Notice of Releasing “SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Margin Trading and Securities Lending (Revised in 2015)”
01 Jul 2015
　　Shang Zheng Fa (2015) No. 64 Document All Market Participants,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has revised the existing “SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Margin Trading and Securities Lending” (the “Rules” for short) in a bid to cement risk management on the business of margin trading and securities lending, propel steady growth of the business and protect investors’ legitimate rights and interests. The SSE hereby releases the revised “Rules”, which shall take effect on the release date. Considering that the whole-market business and technology will need some time for preparation, Paragraph 3 of Article 12 in the revised “Rules” will not be implemented temporarily, with the implementation time subject to further notification by the SSE.   The “Notice of Revising Articles 49 and 50 in ‘SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Margin Trading and Securities Lending’” (Shang Zheng Fa [2014] No. 9 Document), the “Notice on Relevant Issues of Taking ETFs as Underlying Securities of Margin Trading and Securities Lending” (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2013] No. 30 Document), and the “Notice of Relevant Issues about Participation of Shares with Sales Limit and Stock Shares with Terminated Sales Limit in Listed Companies in Margin Trading and Securities Lending” (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2013] No. 20 Document) respectively released by the SSE on February 21, 2014, May 24, 2013, and March 18, 2013 shall be abolished simultaneously.   Shanghai Stock Exchange July 1, 2015

Q&A by SSE, SZSE, CSDC Officials on Lowering Charging Standards for A-share Trading, Settlement
01 Jul 2015
Q: The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited (CSDC) dramatically lowered handling fee and transfer fee for A-share trading in 2012. Will they consider further lowering the charging standards in the near future?   A: In order to further cut investors’ trading cost, the SSE, the SZSE and CSDC, upon study, plan to lower the charging standards for A-share trading and settlement. The handling fee for A-share trading bilaterally charged by the SSE and the SZSE will be adjusted from 0.0696‰ to 0.0487‰ of trading amount, with a drop of 30%, among which 0.00974‰ will be forwarded to China Securities Investor Protection Fund Corporation Limited and 0.03896‰ charged by the exchange. Besides, the transfer fee for A-share trading bilaterally charged by CSDC is adjusted from 0.3‰ of trading par value on the SSE and 0.0255‰ of trading amount on the SZSE respectively to 0.02‰ of trading amount uniformly, a drop of about 33% according to the market data of the recent 2 years. The SSE, the SZSE and CSDC will spare no efforts to complete relevant preparatory work, with an aim to implement these adjustments on August 1.

Notice of Soliciting Opinions on “SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Margin Trading and Securities Lending (Draft for Comment on Revision in 2015)”
12 Jun 2015
　　SSE Announcement [2015] No. 19 Document   Upon serious study, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has revised the “SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Margin Trading and Securities Lending”, in a bid to cement risk management on the business of margin trading and securities lending, propel steady growth of the business and protect investors’ legitimate rights and interests.   The “SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Margin Trading and Securities Lending (Draft for Comment on Revision in 2015)” (see attachment) is hereby released to solicit opinions from the market.   Please send your opinions or suggestions to the SSE in written form or by e-mail before July 11, 2015.   Mailing address: SSE Trading Management Department, 5/F, South Wing of Shanghai Stock Exchange Building, 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120   Fax: 021-68807178#66 E-mail: trading@sse.com.cn   Shanghai Stock Exchange June 12, 2015

New SSE Rules Guide Private Funds in Exchange-traded Bond Market
05 Jun 2015
At the end of May, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) publicly released the supporting rules for listing of corporate bonds, making it clear that private fund managers registered with the Asset Management Association of China (AMAC) and private fund products filed at the AMAC can, as qualified investors, participate in subscription for and trading of all bond products on the SSE. The above bond products include public corporate bonds, private corporate bonds, enterprise bonds, convertible bonds, treasury bonds, local government bonds, asset-backed securities and all other spot bonds as well as collateralized repo of bonds, pre-issuance trading of treasury bonds and other bond products that are listed or traded on the SSE.   According to statistics of the AMAC, as of the end of this March, there were 9,031 private fund managers registered with the AMAC, who managed more than 10,000 fund products and an asset of nearly RMB2 trillion in the size. Particularly, the bond-oriented private funds have developed rapidly in recent years. According to statistics from Wind Information Co., Ltd., in 2014 the number of the bond-oriented sunshine private funds grew to 600. The release and implementation of the new rules for corporate bonds, which confirms that private fund managers and private funds can participate in the exchange-traded bond market as qualified investors, will further make the above-mentioned private funds, especially the bond-oriented private funds, more active in investing in the bonds on the SSE.   An SSE official said that the private funds have become an important investment group on the exchange-traded bond market. The SSE has planned to organize a special training for the private fund managers in the near future, so as to guide the related private funds in investing in the exchange-traded bond market. Next, the SSE will continue to improve the supporting rules for bonds and the construction of the market infrastructure, expand the issuance size of exchange-traded bonds, optimize the trading mechanism, and provide better services for the participation of private funds and other market participants in the exchange-traded bond market.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

1st Small-sized Publicly Offered Corporate Bond Listed on SSE
04 Jun 2015
On June 4, the bond publicly offered by Zhoushan Port Group (ZPG) to qualified investors was listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE). It is the first listed publicly offered corporate bond after the release of the “Management Measures for Issuance and Trading of Corporate Bonds” by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), and also the first listed publicly offered corporate bond of an unlisted company.   To promote the reform and development of the bond market and enhance the capacity of the bond market for serving the real economy, the CSRC has issued this year the new measures for corporate bonds, fully meeting the requirements for transformed government functions featuring “streamlining administration, delegating power and strengthening regulation”, which was positively received by the market. Since ZPG submitted the application materials for pre-examination of bond listing in early April, it only took over a month to complete the whole procedures including the SSE completing the pre-examination, the CSRC issuing the approval document, and the issuer accomplishing the issuance and the listing. All this has fully showed the characteristics of market orientation, high efficiency and convenience in the reform of the systems related to corporate bonds.   The corporate bond issued by ZPG and underwritten by Zheshang Securities features a size of RMB700 million and a term of 5 years, with both corporate and facility rated at AA+. In May, the subscription ratio of the bond reached 4.84 times and the issuance coupon rate stood at 4.48%, the lowest rate for AA+ bonds in recent bond market, far below the five-year bank loan benchmark interest rate of 5.5%. The issuance result showed that the market institutions highly recognized the corporate bond and also demonstrated the attraction of SSE’s bond market and the advantage of the market-based pricing.   The successful issuance and listing of the corporate bond of ZPG is also another achievement made by Zhejiang Provincial Government in its pilot financial reform. According to an official of Zhejiang Provincial Finance Office, Zhejiang provincial government attaches great importance to the opportunity in the reform of new corporate bonds and actively seeks support from all parties concerned. The provincial government has made early efforts to mobilize and organize several high-quality companies in need of financing in the province, pushing them to issue corporate bonds as soon as possible, so as to explore new financing channels for the enterprises.   Earlier, the SSE released the “Rules for Listing of Corporate Bonds” and other supporting rules related to the listing of corporate bonds, further simplified the procedures for bond listing, strengthened the categorized and dynamic management of bonds, and optimized the system of information disclosure, in a bid to boost the development of the corporate bond market. Next, the SSE will continue to improve the supporting systems for corporate bonds and enhance the construction of market infrastructures, step up the service for the market, and join hands with all market participants to push forward the development and innovation of the corporate bond market and facilitate the development of the real economy.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Releases Supporting Rules for Corporate Bonds’ Listing
29 May 2015
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has released the “Rules for Corporate Bonds’ Listing (Revised in 2015)” (the Rules), the “Provisional Measures on Business Administration of Non-public Issuance of Corporate Bonds” (the Provisional Measures) and the “Measures on Investor Suitability Management in Bond Market” (the Measures), in a bid to cement management on corporate bonds’ listing, protect legitimate rights and interests of investors and facilitate sustainable growth of the corporate bond market. The above 3 supporting rules shall be put into effect as of the date of the release.   Main contents involved in the 3 supporting rules are as follows:   1. About the Rules. The Rules standardizes the listing of publicly issued corporate bonds: first, bond categorization and dynamic management are strengthened; second, responsibilities of professional agencies including underwriters are stressed and clarified; third, listing procedure is simplified; fourth, efforts are made to cement information disclosure management and optimize information disclosure procedure; fifth, regulation on bond’s duration is intensified to protect legitimate rights and interests of investors; sixth, self-regulatory system is perfected, and in-process and aftermath regulation are strengthened as well.   2. About the Provisional Measures. The SSE has formulated the Provisional Measures on the basis of the existing rules for private placement bonds, in a bid to standardize transfer of non-publicly issued bonds, with main contents as follows: first, transfer procedure is simplified; second, features of private placement bonds are highlighted, and the regulatory system is consummated; third, differences of special bond products are emphasized to boost the growth of the private placement bond market.   3. About the Measures. According to relevant categorization standard in the “Management Measures on Issuance and Trading of Corporate Bonds”, the Measures is formulated after the SSE’s former requirements for investor suitability are rationalized, integrated and revised. The revised contents are as follows: first, standard of professional investors is cancelled while that of qualified investors is put into force; second, scope of the bonds in which investors may invest is specified; third, the investor suitability management is perfected, and the channel for reporting and filing the name list is specified.   4. About arrangement for the systematical transitions of stock corporate bonds. The notice of releasing the 3 supporting rules has specified relevant systematical transitions of stock corporate bonds. The main contents are as follows: first, underwriters, trustees and other professional agencies of stock corporate bonds should fulfill duties and obligations according to the new rules; second, the bond risk alert system will not be implemented; third, pre-issuance filing will not be carried out for former SMEs private placement bonds, securities companies’ short-term corporate bonds, and private placement bonds for mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations; fourth, about the systematical transition of investor suitability. The requirement for the investor suitability of the former stock corporate bonds that ordinary investors are allowed to buy remains unchanged, while that of other stock corporate bonds is adjusted to be qualified investors or qualified institutional investors.   Since it soliciting opinions on March 20, 2015, the SSE has received more than 60 pieces of written opinions from securities companies, credit rating agencies, individuals and others. The market agrees with the 3 supporting rules and advises to release them as soon as possible. These opinions mainly involve information disclosure, professional agencies’ duties, entry-into-force conditions for bond holders’ meeting, and investor suitability standard. In light of the market opinions, the following revisions are seen in the supporting rules:   (1) Postponed disclosure of report on trusteeship affairs is added. Besides, the time for disclosing periodical rating report is adjusted from June 30 ever year to within 2 months after disclosure of issuer’s annual report.   (2) It is specified that disclosure of periodical reports should be fixed in advance if non-publicly issued bonds go through credit rating.   (3) With regard to non-publicly issued bonds, proportions that trigger the need for information disclosure of significant issue due to changes of issuer’s directors and supervisors and other changes are increased.   (4) Relevant articles and clauses are revised and perfected according to the market opinions.   Some individual investors suggest that the standard for financing party of collateralized repo of bonds adopt steady transition. Therefore, the SSE specified in the notice of releasing the 3 supporting rules that a 6-month transitional period will be given. During the transitional period, investors who have already participated in the financing transaction of collateralized repo of bonds may still conduct transaction according to former rules. After the transitional period, investors who do not meet the conditions for qualified investors mentioned in the new rules will not be allowed to participate in financing transaction.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

*ST Erzhong Heavy and *ST Boyuan INV Delisted from SSE
29 May 2015
Suspension of listing of Zhuhai Boyuan Investment Co., Ltd. (*ST Boyuan INV) on May 28, 2015 marked the conclusion of major delisting jobs in 2015 by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE). Before this, the SSE had decided to terminate the listing of China Erzhong Group (Deyang) Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. (*ST Erzhong Heavy), with its shares delisted from the SSE on May 21, 2015.   The SSE witnesses delisting of two companies in 2015: *ST Erzhong Heavy and *ST Boyuan INV, to which it attaches great importance by setting up a delisting work group to dispose of the two companies in a steady way. The voluntary delisting of *ST Erzhong Heavy and the suspension of listing of *ST Boyuan INV due to serious violation of laws have been going smoothly. The case of *ST Erzhong Heavy will serve as a positive model for voluntary delisting of other companies, while that of *ST Boyuan INV will be conducive to cleaning the market environment and establishing market confidence.   1. Voluntary delisting of *ST Erzhong Heavy is the first practice after delisting rules reform was launched in 2014, hopefully serving as a positive model for voluntary delisting of other companies.   The large-scale centrally-administered enterprise *ST Erzhong Heavy has been in the red since 2011, the year after its listing, and it’s forecasted that compulsory delisting would be triggered after the disclosure of its annual report of 2014, to which investors and the media paid close attention. Against such backdrop, *ST Erzhong Heavy and its actual controller China National Machinery Industry Corporation (SINOMACH) had planned to get delisted voluntarily to mitigate conflicts of interests of all parties.   On April 23, 2015, a shareholders’ meeting was held by *ST Erzhong Heavy, examining and approving the “Resolution of Voluntary Termination of Listing Shares by Means of Shareholders’ Meeting” with an approval rate of 99.7% among all the shareholders present and an approval rate of 77% among minority shareholders. Thus, the company becomes the first listed company that carries out voluntary delisting after the new delisting rules were implemented in 2014.   That’s actually not the primary choice for delisting of *ST Erzhong Heavy, as SINOMACH intended to achieve voluntary delisting of the company by means of comprehensive tender offer but failed due to insufficient shares for pre-accepted offers.   During the delisting of *ST Erzhong Heavy, the SSE made great efforts in the following 4 aspects: Firstly, driving the company to disclose significant information continuingly and sufficiently in order to protect the right to know and right to make decision of investors; secondly, clarifying policies to instruct the company to enhance protection of investors; thirdly, providing strong support for the company in the aspects of policy consultation and technical support; fourthly, following up and analyzing the public opinion and having the company respond to investors’ appeals in time.   As the first practice of delisting after delisting rules reform in 2014, the voluntary delisting of *ST Erzhong Heavy will serve as a model for delisting of other companies in the securities market from three aspects: Firstly, the anticipated objective of the reform has been fulfilled. Delisting of *ST Erzhong Heavy indicated that the market-oriented reform of delisting rules was on the right track and in line with the interests of all market participants. Secondly, a delisting sample based on the principle of company autonomy has been established. During the voluntary delisting of *ST Erzhong Heavy, shareholders took an active part in the event and uttered their opinions in reasonable ways, fully implementing the principle of company autonomy. Thirdly, a solution to tackling difficulties in delisting and achieving normalization of delisting has been provided. In a system of voluntary delisting, investors may have a better protection of their own rights and interests by exercising the rights of shareholders. The smooth delisting of *ST Erzhong Heavy has shown that voluntary delisting could be an effective way of handling conflicts of interests of all parties and realizing normalization of delisting.   2. *ST Boyuan INV is the first company put into suspension of listing due to illegal disclosure of significant information in China’s securities market, conducive to cleaning the market environment and establishing market confidence.   On March 26, 2015, *ST Boyuan INV was transferred by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) to the investigation of public security organs due to being suspected of irregular disclosure and non-disclosure of important information and of forging and altering financial instruments. According to relevant regulations, the SSE had issued delisting risk warnings since March 31 and, on May 22, decided to suspend listing of *ST Boyuan INV on May 28. *ST Boyuan INV was thus made the first company in the securities market that was under listing suspension and put under investigation of public security organs due to serious violations. Such measures will surely help clean the market environment and establish market confidence to a great extent.   Since the mechanism for suspension of listing of *ST Boyuan INV was activated, the SSE has been strictly observing laws and regulations at all relevant jobs, paying special attention to protecting the rights and interests of investors, with focus on the following aspects:   (1) Driving the company toward better information disclosure to fully reveal the delisting risk. After the company was put under investigation by public security organs due to serious violation of laws, the SSE urged the company to disclose details and outcomes of its violations, especially to explain, based on the relevant delisting procedures and steps, the specific course of suspension and termination of listing to investors in a bid to settle their anticipation.   Statistics show that during the 31 trading days from March 31 to May 14, 2015, the company disclosed 22 announcements of risk warning. As to the problem that in the company’s annual report disclosed on April 30, 2015, its Board of Directors, Board of Supervisors and senior executives would not guarantee the authenticity, accuracy and integrity of the information disclosed, the SSE launched its quick reaction mechanism and required the company to state reasons without reservation and rectify the flaw in time. The SSE also reminded the market of the delisting risk and trading risk about the company through channels like news conference, investors’ education column and official Weibo account.   (2) Beefing up supervision over abnormal activities in securities trading and maintaining the trading order. There’s been speculation in stock trading since delisting risk warning was applied to *ST Boyuan INV on March 31, against which the SSE urged the company and relevant responsible bodies to execute their obligations of information disclosure. Besides, it also made some other efforts mainly in the following three aspects. Firstly, the company’s stock trading information was publicized on the SSE’s official website every day to remind investors of trading risks; secondly, temporary trading suspension was applied for three times to abnormal trading activities featuring an in-session turnover rate of more than 30%, and necessary supervision was imposed on investors conducting irregular overbuying and securities companies that hadn’t properly handled compliance management of clients’ trading; thirdly, as for irregular shareholding lessening by the largest shareholder within the period of risk warning, the SSE took prompt supervision and explicated that the shareholder should no longer trade the company’s stocks within 2 days after the report on equity change was disclosed.   In the next stage, the SSE will analyze suggestions from the market participants on delisting based on the delisting experience of the above-mentioned two companies, optimize and specify relevant policy arrangements and working procedures, and boost perfection of a delisting mechanism oriented to the market, based on laws and regulations and operated in normalization.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE, CFFEX, Deutsche BÖrse Group to Build Joint Venture in Germany
27 May 2015
Today, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), China Financial Futures Exchange (CFFEX) and Deutsche Börse Group entered into a strategic cooperation agreement on jointly developing a trading platform for offshore renminbi financial instruments, planning to set up a joint venture in Frankfurt as the operator for the platform.   For a long time, the SSE and CFFEX have considered the issues of how to improve the internationalization of China’s capital market and how to "go global" for participating in the competition on the international market. In 2013, when talking about the cooperation between the two exchanges, SSE Chairman of the Governors and CEO of Deutsche Börse Group put forward the initiative to set up a trading platform for offshore RMB securities products in Europe and promote the construction of the European offshore RMB market. The discussions and communications in nearly two years have resulted in the cooperation model and operational program recognized by all parties as well as the support and recognition of the regulators and governments of both countries. On March 19 this year, the First China-Germany High Level Financial Dialogue released a joint statement in which Article 17 clearly says: “Both sides support the SSE, the CFFEX and the Deutsche Börse Group’s plan to co-establish a platform to trade offshore RMB financial instruments in Frankfurt.” Later, the three exchanges organized the preparatory teams, having carefully studied the specific operational program for establishing the European offshore RMB securities products trading platform.   The signing of the strategic cooperation framework agreement marks not only the vigorous implementation of the fruitful achievements of the dialog but also another important milestone for the capital market facilitating the internationalization of RMB. According to the agreement, the joint venture will be named “China Europe International Exchange Co., Ltd.”, with the SSE, CFFEX and Deutsche Börse Group holding 40%, 20% and 40% of the shares of the new company respectively. The main purposes of the joint venture are research and development and listing of the offshore renminbi-denominated securities and derivatives products. The new company will be registered and established in Frankfurt, Germany, and it is scheduled to be officially put into operation in the fourth quarter of 2015.   As another important measure of the SSE and CFFEX for supporting the "two-way opening-up of the capital market and RMB internationalization", the “One Belt, One Road” initiative and other national strategies after the introduction of the “Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect”, the establishment of the new joint venture is of great significance.   With China’s economy increasingly integrating with the world economy, the cross-border use of RMB has been more and more widespread and RMB internationalization has become a major strategy for the opening-up of China's economic and financial fields. In order to promote the strategy of RMB internationalization, in addition to exporting large amounts of RMB in trade, investment and other forms, we should also create favorable investment products and places for these offshore renminbi funds. Therefore, from the perspective of further improving the RMB’s international status, the construction of the trading markets for offshore RMB products is of great importance.   The cooperation with the Deutsche Börse Group in developing the European offshore RMB securities products trading platform will give full play to the advantages of the exchanges of the two countries. A variety of RMB securities products will be developed in a short period of time to fill in the blanks of the RMB securities markets in European time zones, provide more choices of investment instruments for overseas RMB funds, and help further expand the opening-up and advance the progress of the RMB internationalization.   The decision-making officials of the exchanges of both sides are full of confidence in the development of the joint venture in the future. Dr. Gui Minjie, SSE Chairman of the Governors, said, “In the context of continuous opening-up of China’s capital market, the three exchanges will jointly invest in setting up the offshore renminbi securities products trading platform in Frankfurt, which will facilitate the two-way opening-up of China’s capital market. It will provide abundant investment instruments for the offshore RMB market and accelerate the pace of RMB internationalization. It is also an important initiative of mutually beneficial cooperation between the Chinese and German exchanges. I believe that the cooperation of the three exchanges is bound to result in fruitful achievements. The joint venture is certain to achieve the common goals expected by the three parties.”   Zhang Shenfeng, Board Chairman of CFFEX, said, “The SSE, CFFEX and Deutsche Börse Group will jointly fund the establishment of an RMB assets trading platform in Frankfurt, which marks a milestone for the domestic capital market and domestic exchanges. The platform will facilitate the accumulation of experience in the opening-up of China’s capital market and contribute to the internationalization of RMB.”   Carsten Kengeter, CEO designate of Deutsche Börse Group, said, “China has developed into an important player in the global economy. The joint venture is not only the result of the long-term sincere cooperation of the three exchanges, but also an important initiative for promoting the internationalization of the RMB through the capital market. Deutsche Börse Group is honored to be part of it.”   After the signing of this strategic cooperation agreement, the preparatory teams of both sides will lose no time to advance the opening of the joint venture in accordance with the plan and strive to put it into operation on schedule.   　　————————————————————————— About Shanghai Stock Exchange The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) was established on November 26, 1990. The SSE is China's largest and the world's third largest stock exchange. As of May 20, 2015, the SSE ranked third, second and third in the total market capitalization of the stocks, the turnover and the amount of funding among the world's major exchanges.   The SSE is the first and currently the only full-line exchange in China, with the products covering the spot (stocks) and derivatives (stock options) markets.   The SSE is the exchange in China’s mainland with the highest degree of openness. The trading mechanism of "Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect" introduced in 2014 makes the SSE the only securities exchange in China’s mainland with the trading mechanism connected with an overseas market. The SSE is in transition from a large blue-chip market in the traditional sense to a multi-level market. In 2014, the SSE was approved to enter the market of small-sized companies issuing less than 50 million shares; the SSE plans to launch the board of strategic emerging industries to enter the broader market of innovative companies.   About China Financial Futures Exchange Consented by the State Council and approved by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, China Financial Futures Exchange (CFFEX) is a financial futures exchange jointly initiated by Shanghai Futures Exchange, Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange, Dalian Commodity Exchange, Shanghai Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Stock Exchange and established in Shanghai on September 8, 2006. Up to now, it has listed five products, including CSI 300 Index Futures, SSE 50 Index Futures, CSI 500 Index Futures, 5-year Treasury Bond Futures and 10-year Treasury Bond Futures, and it is vigorously researching and developing the stock index options, foreign exchange futures, interest rate futures and other products. In the whole year of 2014, the total number of the contracts traded on CFFEX reached 218 million. According to FIA statistics, in 2014 the trading volume of the CSI 300 Index Futures ranked fourth among the stock index futures products in the world.   About Deutsche Börse Group Deutsche Börse Group is the world's leading securities and derivatives service provider, providing a wide range of products and services for issuers, investors, intermediaries and data vendors worldwide. The businesses of the group cover the whole exchange business chain including trading, clearing, settlement, custody, etc. In addition, Deutsche Börse also offers market data, indices, research and development and operation of information technology systems.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

1st China, Central Asia Capital Market Forum Kicks Off
27 May 2015
On May 26, the 1st China and Central Asia Capital Market Forum was unveiled in Alma-Ata, Kazakhstan. Present at the forum were Chinese representatives including Zhang Yujun, Assistant to Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), Qi Bin, Director of the International Cooperation Department of the CSRC; President Huang Hongyuan and Vice President Que Bo of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), as well as representatives of Kazakhstan including senior officials of the Ministry of Investments and Development and the National Bank of Kazakhstan and President of the Kazakhstan Stock Exchange (KASE). The two sides signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU).   Addressing the opening ceremony of the forum, Zhang Yujun briefed the latest progress in Bilateral Opening-up of China’s Capital Market now underway. “Since Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect was launched last year,” he said, “It has drawn wide attention from the global capital market. Now, we’re building trading platforms for financial assets in the free trade zone and for international crude oil futures, while planning Mutual Fund Connect between China’s mainland and Hong Kong as well as Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect for the next half of 2015.” Such an openness of China’s capital market has laid a solid foundation for China-Kazakhstan cooperation in the capital market. Zhang hoped such cooperation could go further and further by virtue of the “New Silk Road Economic Belt” strategy.   To achieve the goal he suggested: firstly, exchanges between capital market insiders in the two countries should be encouraged to get them acquainted with each other’s markets as soon as possible; secondly, the two sides should conduct pragmatic business cooperation in an all-round way based on their own conditions. Chinese enterprises should make full use of the national strategy of “One Belt, One Road” that focuses on connectivity and cooperation among countries primarily in Eurasia, and both the SSE and the KASE should play a better role in resource allocation between the two countries to boost their collaboration in capital market building and bilateral opening-up; thirdly, the impact of China and Central Asia Capital Market Forum should be enhanced to make it an excellent platform for China’s cooperation and exchanges with central Asian countries.   On the other hand, Qi Bin introduced the general situations of China’s macro economy and capital market as well as the development opportunities it enjoys at the current transitional period; he also demonstrated the mutual promotion between reform and opening-up of the capital market and their important roles in helping China evade the “Middle Income Trap”. After visioning the capital market cooperation between the two countries, he expressed his hope that such cooperation could serve as a role model for China’s cooperation with other countries along the “One Belt, One Road”.   According to Huang Hongyuan, with consistency in national strategies between China and Kazakhstan, the two countries should embrace a great prospect for cooperation. As an organizer of the capital market, the SSE is both obliged and motivated to collaborate with securities companies, fund companies and listed companies to respond to the strategy of “One Belt, One Road”. Since its founding 25 years ago, the SSE has evolved into a comprehensive securities exchange trading stocks, bonds, funds and derivatives, thus making itself an emerging market boasting initial global influence, high regional competitiveness and capacity of sustainable development. Huang extended sincere welcome to overseas government institutions and enterprises, especially those from countries along “One Belt, One Road”, to issue bonds in Renminbi on the SSE in order to exert its role in supporting the national strategy. He also expected the forum to initiate a platform for direct communication of enterprises and financial institutions between the two countries and advance the capital market cooperation between them toward a higher level, a deeper scale and a wider scope. As follow-up, Que Bo provided a detailed introduction to the SSE.   It is learnt that this forum is a product of the comprehensive strategic partnership between China and Kazakhstan. Cooperated by the SSE and the KASE, the forum is both a manifestation of high-level cooperation between the two countries and a sign of the SSE to act in tandem with “One Belt, One Road” and broaden opening-up. By signing MOUs with 44 overseas exchanges, the SSE is embracing greater development opportunities with its expanded connections.   Source: Shanghai Securities News

Notice on Issues of Adding Time Intervals of Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure
24 May 2015
　　Shang Zheng Fa (2015) No. 47 Document All Listed Companies,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has decided to add new time intervals of information disclosure on the basis of the existing post-market-closing time intervals of information disclosure on trading days, in a bid to help listed companies timely fulfill information disclosure obligation and elevate information disclosure efficiency. It hereby notifies relevant issues as follows:   1. A time interval (13:00-17:00) of information disclosure on non-trading-days will be added on a single non-trading-day or the last day of continuous non-trading-days. Within this time interval, a listed company may disclose the “Direct Channel” announcements as stipulated in the “SSE Category Index for Announcements on Information Disclosure” (the Index for short), while the “Non-direct-channel” announcements shall not be disclosed.   2. Two time intervals of information disclosure, namely, 07:30-08:30 in the morning and 11:30-12:30 at noon will be added on trading days.   3. If a listed company, for such objective reasons as accident and domestic and foreign time difference, fails to release an announcement within the previous time interval of information disclosure, it may do so on the SSE website (www.sse.com.cn) in the time interval of information disclosure in the morning or that at noon as required by this notice, and publish it on the media designated by the China Securities Regulatory Commission for information disclosure on the next trading day.   4. A listed company may release the following 4 categories of announcements according to the Index in the time interval in the morning on trading days:   (1) Announcement on alert of trading suspension or resumption (3301) (2) Announcement on clarification and explanation (1002) (3) Announcement on contract signing (0419) (4) Announcement on other financing products disclosed due to issuing securities in overseas market (1599)   5. A listed company may release the following 2 categories of announcements according the Index in the time interval at noon on trading days:   (1) Announcement on alert of trading suspension or resumption (3301) (2) Announcement on clarification and explanation (1002)   6. A listed company should timely report to relevant personnel of the SSE regulatory department for listed companies after submitting an announcement through the information disclosure business management system in the time interval of information disclosure on non-trading-days or in the time interval of information disclosure in the morning or at noon on trading days, and carry out self-check to ensure that the announcement has been released on the SSE website.   If a listed company submits an announcement on alert of trading suspension or resumption (3301) in the category of prior examination in the time interval of information disclosure in the morning or at noon on trading days, it should immediately confirm and release it after the SSE’s examination work is completed.   7. If a listed company releases an announcement on the SSE website in the time interval of information disclosure in the morning or at noon on trading days, the release day should be regarded as the disclosure day.   8. If a listed company with overseas listed shares releases an announcement in the time interval of information disclosure in the morning or at noon on trading days, it should also abide by information disclosure rules in the different places where the shares are listed, so as to guarantee fairness of information disclosure.   9. If a listed company violates the stipulations in this notice or abuses the time interval of information disclosure on non-trading-days, or the time interval of information disclosure in the morning or at noon on trading days, the SSE shall impose regulatory measures or disciplinary sanctions on the company and the liable person concerned according to actual conditions.   10. This notice shall come into force on June 1, 2015.   Shanghai Stock Exchange May 24, 2015

Notice of Releasing “SSE Pre-examination Procedure for Listing of Corporate Bonds”
20 May 2015
All market participants,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), for the purpose of serving investors and in the principle of openness, fairness and impartiality and for the convenience of investors, hereby releases the pre-examination procedure for listing of corporate bonds to be publicly issued to qualified investors, in a bid to standardize the pre-examination and enhance transparency. The procedure shall come into effect from the date of release.   Shanghai Stock Exchange May 20, 2015

Notice of Releasing “SSE Pre-examination Procedure for Listing of Corporate Bonds”
20 May 2015
All market participants,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), for the purpose of serving investors and in the principle of openness, fairness and impartiality and for the convenience of investors, hereby releases the pre-examination procedure for listing of corporate bonds to be publicly issued to qualified investors, in a bid to standardize the pre-examination and enhance transparency. The procedure shall come into effect from the date of release.   Shanghai Stock Exchange May 20, 2015

SSE Vice President Liu Shi’an: Board of Strategic Emerging Industries to Develop More Channels of Venture Capital Exit
20 May 2015
At the 2015 SSE Forum on Equity Investment in China held on May 19, Vice President Liu Shi’an of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) gave a keynote speech as to the significance, urgency and overseas experience in launching the Board of Strategic Emerging Industries. According to Liu, establishment of such a board responds to China’s “innovation-driven development strategy”, likely to meet the actual needs of emerging enterprises and facilitate development of the multi-tier capital market, as well as provide effective channels of exit for venture capitals invested in emerging enterprises and draw more social capitals toward emerging industries.   When talking about the significance of the Board of Strategic Emerging Industries that day, Liu pointed out that the founding and the growth of emerging enterprises have to rely on the financial system and the capital market. However, the current market system and issuance system in China’s capital market are mainly targeted at the characteristics of traditional enterprises, without systems specially arranged for emerging enterprises so that it’s hard for them to enter the capital market. There’re still a lot of strategic emerging enterprises that can hardly win financing support due to inconformity with current conditions for issuance and listing in the domestic capital market, as they haven’t profited so far. Establishment of the board can provide such enterprises with a platform in domestic capital market to support their business development.   From the perspective of developing the multi-tier capital market, Liu believed the current main board, SME board and growth enterprise board feature on the whole identical types of enterprises without fully showing the differences between different market boards. Listed emerging enterprises, which are in a small amount, achieved weak aggregation effect and limited financing capacity, thus hardly exerting the function of the national strategy having the capital market support growth of emerging industries. Independent establishment of the Board of Strategic Emerging Industries will be conducive to forming industrial concentration and market focus, like setting up a “flagship store” for emerging enterprises; it’ll be favorable for attracting more social capitals into emerging industries to boost enterprises’ innovations and growth and for assuming the National Venture Capital Guiding Fund for Emerging Industries to meet the financing demands of emerging enterprises at different life cycle stages; and it will aid the multi-tier capital market to exert its function of supporting enterprises’ independent innovation, hence providing great power for innovation-driven transformation of China’s economy.   From the perspective of equity investment, the Board of Strategic Emerging Industries can help develop more channels for the exit of private equity (PE) and venture capital (VC). Liu claimed that from founding to maturity, an enterprise will need funds of different risk appetites to support its development, so that whether different kinds of funds can smoothly flow between different stages of enterprise development has become a key to the success of an enterprise. PE/VC is an important capital source at the early stage of emerging enterprise development, and as the secondary market is an important channel of PE/VC exit, the level of its completeness and the exiting efficiency will be the chief factors that will directly impact VC input in emerging industries.   However, according to the current development of domestic capital market, the secondary market can hardly meet the demands of VC’s exit. Statistics show that from 2006 to 2014, there’re altogether 19,162 projects involving the investment of PE/VC, but only 3,624 saw such investment exited, with the gap expanding between the number of investment projects in inventory and that of those with PE/VC exited, not to mention only less than 7% companies listed with IPO witnessed such an exit annually on average. In view of all these, Liu believed the establishment of the new board will guarantee VC engaged in emerging enterprises effective channel of exit, thereby absorbing more capitals into emerging industries to drive transformation and upgrading of China’s economy.   Liu also emphasized the urgency of establishing the board. For instance, some high-quality China concept stocks and Chinese enterprises that planned to get listed abroad are seeking ways of getting listed earlier in the A-share market. By contrast, a complete system is absent from the domestic capital market to take over China concept stocks, which further intensifies the urgency of establishing the Board of Strategic Emerging Industries. Thus, in the context of the reform of the registration system of stock issuance, the SSE’s promotion of the board will play an important role in taking over China concept stocks. But so far, there’re still some institutional obstacles to the listing of China concept stocks in A-share market, so promotion of the new board, plus setting-up of other innovative systems, is hoped to facilitate the listing. As a brand new independent board, the Board of Strategic Emerging Industries will serve as a pilot zone operating in the principle of market orientation.   In addition, the multi-level exchanges abroad enlighten the SSE to establish the Board of Strategic Emerging Industries beyond the current boards in the market. Liu briefed the SSE’s findings after systematic studies: a multi-level market is based on differentiated conditions for listing; it is better that different boards use a uniform trading mechanism; for an emerging market, strict regulation over information disclosure is a guarantee for the success of low-level markets; flexible board switching mechanism and strict delisting system are chief measures to ensure efficient operation of the market.   In the end Liu summed up, “There’s no standard model to follow when exchanges abroad set up a new board, but a key factor for the board’s success is a system matching the board’s orientation, including flexible listing standards, moderate investor suitability management, a rigorous, lasting regulatory system, and a strict delisting system, which shall be used for reference in our building of the new board.”   Source: Shanghai Securities News

Notice on Issues of Launching SSE Bond Project Application System
20 May 2015
All corporate bonds’ underwriters and asset-backed special plans’ managers,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has developed the Bond Project Application System (the System for short) for submitting applications for projects of corporate bonds and asset backed securities (ABS), in a bid to facilitate the growth of the bond market and elevate the pre-examination efficiency of corporate bonds. The System was launched on May 18, 2015, with relevant issues notified as follows:   1. The websites for the System are https://120.204.69.28/bond and https://116.228.174.180/bond. As of the launch day, underwriters may submit via the System to the SSE their applications for listing pre-examination of the corporate bonds to be publicly issued (to qualified investors) and those for listing and transfer of the non-publicly issued corporate bonds. Time for the System to receive the applications for ABS listing and transfer is subject to further notification of the SSE.   2. A digital certificate is required for an underwriter to log on to the System. The underwriter should apply for handling digital certificate for its project staff according to its business operation, with the relevant procedure as attached.   3. After logging on to the System, the underwriter should complete user registration and permission setting according to the user manual. To finish the project application, it should fill in the project information and submitting the application documents according to relevant requirements.   4. Underwriters should be well prepared for using the System as soon as possible and timely give feedbacks for the use of the System. Before June 30, 2015, underwriters unable to submit their project applications online still could submit their paper application documents. After that day, all the project applications should be submitted through the System in principle.   5. Underwriters should have and perfect its risk control measures and internal management system. It should manage its users and system operation, carry out rigorous information management, and ensure the authenticity, accuracy and completeness of the project application documents. Besides, it should confirm that the application documents have been examined and approved by its internal risk control or compliance department, which has agreed to submit the application documents to the SSE.   6. Intellectual property rights of the filling template for submitting project application in the System shall belong to the SSE, and all underwriters are required to cooperate to protect the intellectual property rights of the template.   7. When using the System, consultation could be made by the following ways: Tencent QQ Chat Group for Bonds’ Issuance and Listing (number: 205530178) and hotline for technical support (400-900-3600).   Shanghai Stock Exchange May 20, 2015

Notice of Releasing “SSE Measures for Assessment of Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure (Revised in 2015)” and “SSE Measures for Regulation of Listed Companies’ Secretaries to Directorates (Revised in 2015)”
27 Apr 2015
All listed companies and market participants,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has revised the “SSE Measures for Assessment of Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure” to better carry out the assessment work, adapt to the new requirements for information disclosure of listed companies in regulatory transformation, and guide the listed companies to continuously improve the disclosure quality. The assessment on the promotion of regulatory transformation and the improvement of information disclosure’s effectiveness by the SSE has been added in the revision. Besides, the assessment system featuring score deduction has been adjusted to a score adding and reduction system characterized by a combination of subjective and objective assessments, with the scoring standard adjusted accordingly.   Furthermore, the revision has included the assessment on secretaries to directorates into the assessment on listed companies’ information. That is, the SSE will not separately assess on secretaries to directorates. Thus, the SSE has synchronously revised the “SSE Measures for Regulation of Listed Companies’ Secretaries to Directorates (Revised in 2011)”, abolishing the regulations about assessment in Chapter 5, and accordingly revising the contents about assessment in Articles 1, 7, 28, 36 and 38.   The SSE hereby releases the “SSE Measures for Assessment of Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure (Revised in 2015)” (see attachment 1) and the “SSE Measures for Regulation of Listed Companies’ Secretaries to Directorates (Revised in 2015)” (see attachment 2), which shall be put into effect as of the release day. All listed companies and market participants are required to abide by them.   　　 Shanghai Stock Exchange April 27, 2015

Notice of Soliciting Pubic Opinions for “Business Guidelines for Information Disclosure of Cooperation and Investment Issues between Listed Companies and Privately Offered Funds (Draft for Comment)”
24 Apr 2015
　　SSE Announcement [2015] No. 14 Document   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has drafted the “Business Guidelines for Information Disclosure of Cooperation and Investment Issues between Listed Companies and Privately Offered Funds (Draft for Comment)” (see the attachment) according to an array of regulations such as the “SSE Stock Listing Rules”, in a bid to standardize the information disclosure of cooperation and investment issues between listed companies and privately offered funds and strengthen its pertinence and effectiveness. It hereby solicits opinions from the public.   Please send your opinions or suggestions to the SSE in written form or by e-mail before May 9, 2015.   Mailing address: SSE Department I of Listed Companies Supervision, Shanghai Stock Exchange Building, 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120   Fax: +86-21-68811782 E-mail: listing@sse.com.cn   Shanghai Stock Exchange April 24, 2015

Expanding Announcement Scope of SSE Direct Channel for Information Disclosure to Fuel Regulatory Transformation
24 Apr 2015
The objective of the “Notice of Expanding Announcement Scope of SSE Direct Channel for Information Disclosure” (the Notice), released on April 24 by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), is to boost the in-process and aftermath regulation on the information disclosure of listed companies.   According to the Notice, the SSE has adjusted 58 Class-2 prior-examination announcement categories under 14 Class-1 announcement categories to aftermath-regulation announcements, involving holding shareholders’ meeting on its own accord by the board of supervisors or shareholders, clarification or explanation on abnormal fluctuations, shareholding increase or decrease, letter of equity change and acquisition, refinancing and significant asset reorganization, bankruptcy and reorganization, and risk alert, etc.   It is learned from an SSE source that based on enough prior appraisal on the market tolerance and the need of controlling business operation risk, 54 categories of announcements involving no business operation sheet completely and 4 categories of announcements with low requirement for timeliness of business operation sheet have been included into the Direct Channel for Information Disclosure. According to simulated calculation on the announcements disclosed by SSE-listed companies in 2014, after the expansion, the proportion of commonly used announcements under the Direct Channel in the SSE market will amount to 92% from 85%, which is expected to exert a major positive influence on listed companies’ improving efficiency and timeliness of information disclosure.   The SSE source is quoted as saying that the expansion is based on these considerations as follows:   1. The steady operation of the SSE Direct Channel for Information Disclosure launched 2 years ago provides a mature condition on the whole for expanding the announcement scope. Since its launch in July 2013, the SSE Direct Channel system has undergone gradual optimization, with its basic functions perfected as well. In addition, most listed companies can operate the SSE Direct Channel system to upload and disclose all categories of prior-regulation and aftermath-regulation announcements, and 85% of announcements go through the SSE Direct Channel, winning high praises from all the market participants.   2. The expansion will help fuel the transformation of self-regulation on listed companies’ information disclosure. The SSE has continuously fueled the transformation from prior regulation to in-process and aftermath regulation by taking information disclosure as a center, which is one of its key work items in recent years. The expansion will cement listed companies’ awareness of person of primary responsibility for information disclosure, strengthen their activeness and effectiveness in fulfilling the information disclosure obligation so as to fundamentally change the “nanny” role of regulators in their information disclosure regulation for further transfer to in-process and aftermath regulation.   Noticeably, many market practitioners say that in light of the current market, the expansion posed higher requirements for listed companies in terms of awareness of main body, responsibility and compliance. Listed companies need to further enhance their ability of standardized operation of information disclosure and improve relevant supporting systems including the system of internal information disclosure management.   For example, a listed company is obliged for prompt response and clarification in case sensitive information about stock prices, such as rumor of significant asset reorganization, is revealed in the market. Should an explanation or clarification announcement released through the SSE Direct Channel be not clear enough, when investors are apt to be further misled, the second clarification or even multi-clarifications are needed. Thus, a listed company should ensure the effectiveness of announcements by positively responding to the market rumors for clarification of the questions raised by the market.   For another example, according to the “Notice of Regulating Information Disclosure of Listed Companies and Acts of All Parties Concerned” released by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) in 2007 and relevant SSE business rules, when a stock price’s trading limit reaches the standard of abnormal fluctuation, a listed company should verify whether the company, its controlling shareholder and actual controller are involved in any sensitive issues of stock price possibly leading to stock price fluctuations, such as significant asset reorganization and refinancing; otherwise, it should promise that it will not plan such issues in the next 3 months. In practice, a few listed companies might carelessly verify conditions, omit relevant promise in announcements, launch relevant significant issue though the promise period does not expire, and even mislead small and medium-sized investors by adopting vague expression in the announcements going through the SSE Direct Channel.   The SSE source adds that for the possible problems that might appear after the abovementioned expansion, pertinent regulatory measures will be taken. Aftermath regulation will be immediately imposed on clarification announcements and abnormal fluctuation ones. Quick response measures, including regulatory inquiry, will be taken strictly for unclear clarification and unfulfilled relevant promises, and the listed company concerned will be required to lose no time for complementary disclosure. If a listed company abuses the SSE Direct Channel to disclosure announcements or randomly disclose announcements, self-regulatory means including suspension of qualification for using the SSE Direct Channel, criticism notice and public condemnation will be timely imposed, and aftermath regulation and punishment will be reinforced accordingly.   In another development, as one of the major supporting items for the adjustment to and optimization of the management system of listed companies’ information disclosure, the SSE will soon implement a multi-time-interval disclosure system to rationalize the efficiency of listed companies’ information disclosure.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE, AVIC Ink Strategic Cooperation Agreement
24 Apr 2015
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) signed on April 23 a strategic cooperation agreement with Aviation Industry Corporation of China (AVIC) at the trading floor of the SSE.   Witnessed by AVIC Board Chairman Lin Zuoming and SSE Chairman of the Governors Gui Minjie, SSE Vice President Xie Wei and AVIC Vice General Manager Wu Xiandong signed the agreement on behalf of the two sides. The signing ceremony was presided over by SSE President Huang Hongyuan. Also witnessing the moment were heads of relevant departments of the SSE and AVIC as well as heads of AVIC Capital Co., Ltd. and AVIC Securities Co., Ltd.   According to the agreement, the two sides will cooperate in asset securitization in the military industry, internet-based financial innovation, IPOs of enterprises in the military industry, refinancing as well as merger, acquisition and reorganization. Financial enterprises affiliated to AVIC will join hands with the SSE to promote the issuance of such innovative products as exchange-traded monetary funds, and ETFs of stocks and bonds of the military industry. Besides, AVIC and the SSE will co-sponsor the 2nd Annual Conference of China Military Industry, which will again be undertaken by AVIC Securities. At the annual conference, all sides will organize teach-ins and seminars for hot issues including integration of production and finance in military enterprises, asset securitization in the military industry, internet-based finance as well as merger, acquisition and reorganization of assets in the military industry.   The strategic cooperation propelled by the SSE and AVIC shows the Chinese capital market’s innovation in supporting the modernization of the military industry. On the basis of building a multi-tiered capital market and increasing the direct financing proportion of enterprises in the military industry, the two sides will vigorously boost the military and civilian integration, build a mid-and-high-end industry structure and accelerate the transition of China from a manufacture giant to a manufacture power as mentioned in the “2025: Made in China” planning formulated for the country’s manufacture industry in the next 10 years.   Lin said that the strategic cooperation is a major step for the strategy of the integration of production and finance put forward by AVIC. The SSE and AVIC, with the common development ideas and the same innovative spirit, mutually supplement advantages in terms of specialty, channel and resource, and have widespread cooperative base and space in the aspects of integration of production and finance, market-oriented transformation and capitalized operation. After the signing of the agreement, AVIC and the SSE will continuously cooperate to co-write a new chapter for integration of production and finance, market-oriented transformation, capitalized operation and sustainable development.   Gui added that the SSE has been consistently committed to improving its ability of serving the real economy, innovating its service way and developing its service. The cooperation will not only contribute to exploring more financing channels for the enterprises of AVIC in the military industry, cutting their financing costs and elevating their directing financing proportion, but also help to improve the SSE’s capacity of serving the enterprises in the military industry for their development through financing in the capital market, and explore new means and ways for the capital market to serve the military industry’s growth. In the future, the SSE will, on the basis of its cooperation with AVIC, study and summarize experience to better facilitate the transformation and upgrading of the national economy.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE WeChat Account for IPO Service Released
21 Apr 2015
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) releases the SSE WeChat Account for IPO Service (sse_ipo_service) on April 21 to adapt to the publicity rule of new media in the new situation of market service.   The WeChat account covers 3 fundamental modules: “News Letter”, “Insight Focus” and “Activity”. Respectively, the first module sends news about the SSE’s IPO service, the second gives insights and analysis on hot issues related to IPO service, and the third releases information on training, seminars and IPO activities.   After subscribing to the WeChat account, enterprises planning to be listed, intermediaries, local governments’ financial departments and other market participants may get professional and comprehensive information on IPO service whenever and wherever possible.   The WeChat account, a new start for the SSE to upgrade its IPO service level, looks forward to your attention and suggestions. The SSE will optimize the experience of market participants by continuously improving and developing its service.                                                                                                                                                     Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice on Matters for Promoting Securities Lending Business
17 Apr 2015
　　Zhong Zheng Xie Fa [2015] No. 80 Document   All securities companies and fund companies,   Since the businesses of margin trading and securities lending was launched 5 years ago, margin trading has witnessed fast booms while securities lending lags. In order to boost the latter, the notice is hereby issued as to relevant matters:   First, professional institutional investors shall be encouraged to engage in securities lending to expand securities sources. The products established by professional institutional investors, including publicly offered funds and asset management plans of securities companies, can be involved in securities lending as of the date of their establishment. Such investors shall be supported to engage in securities lending and securities lending of refinancing to propel supply and demand of securities sources in the market, on the basis of making risks controllable and protecting holders’ rights and interests.   Second, market-oriented agreed application methods for securities lending of refinancing shall be introduced to assist securities companies in developing securities lending according to clients’ needs. Securities lenders and borrowers shall be permitted to negotiate for determining such items as the rate and time limit for securities lending of refinancing, in a bid to raise the trading efficiency and meet the market demand for securities lending.   Third, the trading mechanism of selling through securities lending shall be optimized to enhance trading efficiency. The order price at which exchange traded fund, or ETF, is sold by investors through securities lending shall be kept within the range of valid bidding price stipulated by the exchange, and allowed to be lower than the latest trading price. The money from selling through securities lending can be used for purchasing or subscribing for cash management products of securities companies, money market funds and other high-liquidity securities recognized by stock exchanges.   Fourth, the market regulating role of securities lending shall be fully exerted, with the range of underlying securities of securities lending properly expanded. According to actual market development, stocks fit for short selling through securities lending shall be included in the range of underlying securities of securities lending and those of securities lending of refinancing, the number of which shall be increased to 1,100 lately, thereby fully exerting the market regulating role of short selling mechanism of securities lending.   Fifth, risk control of securities lending shall be strengthened to prevent relevant business risks. All securities companies and fund companies shall further enhance internal control and risk management of securities lending, protect the rights and interests of investors, and ensure the sound development of this business.   Securities Association of China Asset Management Association of China Shanghai Stock Exchange Shenzhen Stock Exchange   April 17, 2015

SSE Welcomes Valuable Reference for Investors in Corporate Annual Reports
17 Apr 2015
A lot of listed companies have published their annual reports since this April, which featured more highlights than their predecessors by including more non-financial information to provide valuable assistance for investors in making decisions about their investment, thanks to the efforts of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) in propelling industry regulation.   Investors “thumb up” to non-financial information   After sorting out 2014 annual reports of relevant companies, it was found out that the information published is no longer just enigmatic financial data but more non-financial information, which largely facilitates investors’ decision-making.   Small and medium-sized investors used to find annual reports too professional and obscure to understand; even an industry analyst in a professional investment institution believes that the focus of corporate annual reports on publishing financial information makes such a report only a “quasi-financial-report”, by which investors can hardly have any foresight of corporate value.   Such dissatisfaction with annual reports of listed companies must be mostly pinned on the lack of non-financial information in annual reports, including corporate development strategy, business model, industry risk and core competitiveness. The analyst abovementioned pointed out that corporate annual reports in mature markets abroad stress publishing non-financial information as an active interpretation of financial data for investors, as well as showing the future investment value of their companies.   However, following the upward stock market this year and the SSE’s efforts in propelling industry regulation, it was found out that this years’ annual reports of SSE-listed companies showed much stronger activeness in publishing non-financial details in business, with some companies disclosing more related content. Investors also remarked that the annual reports this year are much more tangible and usable.   Trade leaders take the lead to “expose more”   According to the published annual reports, some trade leaders set a good example, such as Poly Real Estate Group, Gemdale Group, Sinopec and China Coal Energy, which volunteered to provide all-round analysis as to their trades in their annual reports, and valuable information for investors to grasp a better idea of their positions in their trades and of their investment values.   For instance, based on thorough data, Poly Real Estate Group made quantitative analysis and in-depth illustration as to key indexes concerning investors in the form of diagram, including the sale of commercial housing in the overall market, the area of newly constructed housing, and the area of land purchase and capital source in 2014, thus providing a full view of the real estate industry in 2014 for investors.   On the other hand, companies like Huaneng Power Int’l Inc. and Beijing Wangfujing Department Store (Group) Co., Ltd. (Wangfujing) had their annual reports highlight publishing of key operating data and explanations of hot issues in the market. Huaneng disclosed key operating data like the average utilization time of domestic power plants of the company within the annual report period, the average coal consumption of coal-fired units for power generation, and the average coal consumption rate for power supply, thereby directly presenting capacity utilization of the company in 2014 to all investors.   Considering the market environment for retail business, Wangfujing made a brief analysis and description of the issues drawing investors’ attention, including the businesses in traditional brick-and-mortar stores and online stores, as well as the company’s strategy change.   Analysts commented the publishing of non-financial information of a company enables average investors to find out the values and risks of a certain company beyond professional financial data, so that they will no longer readily make blind decisions.   The SSE encourages publishing of valuable information   Sources say, in addition to the obviously heightened activeness of companies in publishing non-financial information, the SSE is actively practicing industry regulation to review annual reports, hoping to bring out more non-financial information of listed companies and enhance the efficiency of annual reports.   It was reported that companies like Fangsheng Pharmaceutical, *ST Construction Machinery and Heilan Home actively responded to the SSE’s requirements for annual report review to publish a lot of valuable information for investors: Fangsheng Pharmaceutical published its product structure and R&D, *ST Construction Machinery made quantitative analysis of operating risks, and Heilan Home disclosed the core competitiveness of its business model based on the actuality of suppliers and POS terminals.   The publicized review comment letter indicated that the annual report review opinions of the SSE focus on key business information like company channel, model, reserve and business risk in addition to queries about future development strategies of a company, representing a regulatory orientation to the need of investors and the objective of seeking more useful information for investors’ decision making.   Some industry analysts in the securities companies said that due to the SSE’s stronger demand for non-financial information in the annual reports of listed companies, especially the enhanced review and disclosure of industry information, the readability and research value of corporate annual reports have been improved.   Market insiders pointed out the SSE has been promoting regulatory reform in recent years, including the industry regulation announced early this year, trying to step up in-process and aftermath regulation by hinging on information disclosure.   Sources from regulatory departments believe review of annual reports based on characteristics of different industries signals the SSE’s care for investors’ needs in pursuing industry regulation, and its efforts in providing more pertinent, specialized, interactive and refined regulation on information disclosure.   Source: Shanghai Securities News

Notice of Soliciting Public Opinions on “SSE Measures (Revised in 2015) for Assessment of Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure”
25 Mar 2015
All listed companies,   To better assess the listed companies’ information disclosure, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has revised the “SSE Measures (Trial) for Assessment of Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure” (the “Assessment Measures” for short). The revision has added the SSE’s requirements for boosting regulatory transformation and enhancing effectiveness of information disclosure, and adjusted the assessment mechanism dominated with deducting points to the mechanism characterized by increasing and decreasing points according to both subjective and objective factors; besides, the SSE has planned to integrate the assessment system by suspending assessment of Secretaries to Directorate and abolishing the stipulations on Secretaries to Directorate assessment in the “SSE Measures for Regulation of Listed Companies’ Secretaries to Directorates (Amendment)”.   Please refer to the attachments for details of the draft for comment of the “Assessment Measures” and the revision notes. Please send us your opinions or suggestions in written form or through e-mail prior to April 10, 2015.   Mailing address: SSE Department I of Listed Companies Supervision, Shanghai Stock Exchange Building, 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai Postcode: 200120 Fax: +86-21-68811782 E-mail: listing@sse.com.cn     Shanghai Stock Exchange March 25, 2015

Notice of Soliciting Opinions on Business Rules including “SSE Listing Rules of Corporate Bonds”
20 Mar 2015
To standardize the management on corporate bonds’ listing and transfer, promote the sound development of the bond market and protect the legitimate rights and interests of investors, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the “SSE Listing Rules of Corporate Bonds (Revised in 2015) (Draft for Comment)”, the “SSE Interim Measures on Business Management of Non-public Corporate Bonds Issuance (Draft for Comment)” and the “SSE Suitability Management Measures for Bond Market Investors (Revised in 2015) (Draft for Comment)” according to the latest amendment made by the China Securities Regulatory Commission to the “Management Measures on Issuance and Trading of Corporate Bonds”. The SSE hereby solicits opinions from the public on the above 3 business rules.   Please send your opinions or suggestions to the SSE in written form or by e-mail before March 29, 2015.   Mailing address: Bond Market Department, 25/F, South Tower, Shanghai Stock Exchange Building, 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai   Postal code: 200120 Fax: 021-68807177 Email: yjjin@sse.com.cn 　　 Shanghai Stock Exchange March 20, 2015

Always Striving for Protecting Investors’ Rights
16 Mar 2015
2014 marked the year for the reform and innovation of China’s capital market, and the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) seized the opportunity to launch wider changes and achieve leaping progress. While sticking to the developing strategies of the blue chip market, the bond market, the derivatives market and internationalization, we placed emphasis on protecting, instructing and serving investors by promoting such innovative businesses as Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect and stock option. With the incoming International Consumer Rights Day on March 15, the SSE provided activities like inviting legal experts to air their opinions and suggestions about “Regulating the Capital Market by Law and Improving Protection of Investors’ Rights”, in a bid to improve the long-term mechanism for protecting investors’ rights in the securities market. Here is our briefing for all investors. 　　 “I’m a Shareholder” re-launched to prop up investors’ protection 　　 To usher in the International Consumer Rights Day on March 15, the SSE gave a symposium for small and medium-sized investors and a launching ceremony for the 2015 “I’m a Shareholder” activity, in which prize winners from more than 40 securities companies and their business departments, Bright Dairy, as the representative of listed companies, representative individual investors, and 10-odd financial and economic media participated.   The activity “I’m a Shareholder” is intended to take investors’ advice, reflect investors’ wishes, smooth the communication between investors and listed companies, and improve investor relationship management of listed companies. It’s not only a responsibility that listed companies should observe for the interests of investors, but also a historical mission that SSE shoulders for promoting the standardized development of the capital market and protecting the legal rights and interests of investors.   After run for two consecutive years, the activity has won the applause of minority investors as well as the recognition of listed companies, securities companies and the media. Now this campaign was restarted and online mass selection was unveiled on March 16.   Liu Shi’an, Deputy President of the SSE, remarked that the success of the activity must be attributed to the efforts of all parties involved. The SSE will continue the momentum of the activity by perfecting supporting measures with the support of all parties concerned and making it a regular activity to show the resolve of the exchange in fulfilling investors’ protection.   In the event of 2015, last year’s mode of “investors selecting listed companies by voting, and visiting listed companies under organization by the SSE”, as well as new mechanisms that allow listed companies to recommend themselves to the SSE and securities companies to hold the activity with the SSE will co-exist. Meanwhile, the SSE is attempting to integrate “I’m a Shareholder” activity with company listing ceremony, so that investors can have the opportunity of visiting more newly listed companies.   In addition, in the current system framework, Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect realizes the interconnection between Shanghai and Hong Kong stock exchanges, so that SSE is gradually making itself an essential part of the international market. By virtue of this opportunity, “I’m a Shareholder” shall further extend its content to provide investors with direct information of companies engaged in Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect and facilitate the communication between mainland investors and overseas market investors.   In the symposium, the SSE also commended and granted awards to outstanding securities companies, business departments of securities companies and individual investors. Participants exchanged ideas as to the running of “I’m a Shareholder” and investors’ service and protection, and pleaded for further investment to improve infrastructure and system support in this aspect, so that its pertinence and efficiency can be enhanced. They also looked forward to more opportunities for experience demonstration and exchange in the trade granted by the SSE, in order to promote the mechanism for communication between investors and listed companies.   　　Prize-winning securities companies are listed below:   　Outstanding Organization Prize for “I’m a Shareholder” 　　   No. Winners 1 Datong Securities 2 Northeast Securities 3 Oriental Securities 4 Guangzhou Securities 5 Haitong Securities 6 Huatai Securities 7 Huaxi Securities 8 Huaxin Securities 9 Qilu Securities 10 Xiamen Securities 11 Shanxi Securities 12 Shanghai Securities 13 Shenwan Hongyuan Securities 14 Western Securities 15 Xinda Securities 16 Galaxy Securities 17 China Securities 18 CITIC Securities 19 China Post Securities 20 Zhongyuan Securities 　　 　　 Award Nominations of Outstanding Organization for “I’m a Shareholder” 　　 No. Winners 1 Bohai Securities 2 Chuancai Securities 3 Dongguan Securities 4 Soochow Securities 5 GF Securities 6 Guodu Securities 7 Guotai Junan Securities 8 Huaan Securities 9 Huarong Securities 10 Kaiyuan Securities 11 Lianxun Securities 12 Xiangcai Securities 13 Industrial Securities 14 Great Wall Securities 15 Changjiang Securities 16 China Merchants Securities 17 Zheshang Securities 18 China Investment Securities 19 Stockren Securities 20 CITIC Securities (Zhejiang) 　　 　　 Cluster all consensuses to jointly promote the protection of investors’ rights and interests under the circumstances of reform and innovation of securities market 　　 The “March 15 Seminar of Investor Education and Protection of Investors’ Rights and Interests” was organized by the SSE in Beijing recently to fully carry out the legal publicity for the protection of investors’ rights and interests and boost the work of investor education and protection of investors’ rights and interest in the securities markets. It was attended by nearly 50 people including heads of Investor Protection Bureau of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited, Guo Li, Deputy Director of School of Law of Peking University, and heads of 31 securities dealers from 21 provinces (or autonomous regions, or municipalities). 　　　 Regulatory bodies, market entities and law experts had in-depth discussions over the theme of “promote rule of law in capital market, optimize protection of investors’ rights and interests” on the basis of the securities market’s reform and innovation, and consensuses were reached in such aspects as protection of investors’ rights and interests and in-depth investor education.   Liu Shi’an, Deputy President of the SSE, said at the meeting that the building and improvement of the multi-level market requires comprehensive involvement of investors. Investors, especially small-and-medium-sized investors, are in a weak status in the process of industry development and innovation, which makes the protection of investors’ rights and interests necessary and requires us to take investor protection and investor education as priorities to have the protection to match with the market development. Currently, the environment of rule of law in the securities market is being perfected, but it is still difficult for investors to defend their rights and interests through legal means. We believe that these issues will be solved with the progress of such work as amending the “Securities Law”. Against the backdrop of the on-going reform and innovation in the securities industry and the steady promotion of regulatory transformation, market entities should remember to enhance the protection of investors’ rights and interests through such measures as investor education to facilitate further development of the securities market and have the securities industry to serve the real economy. The SSE will take advantage of its self-regulatory function to carry out the unified deployment of the CSRC so as to cooperate with various bodies to promote investor education and the protection of investors’ rights and interests on the basis of the function of exchange and its positioning.   Liu Lei, Director of Investor Protection Bureau of the CSRC, and Professor Guo Li from School of Law of Peking University gave lectures on handling of investors’ complaints and innovating the dispute settlement mechanism of investors. Liu Lei pointed out that the development of market would lead to complex financial products and enhance the asymmetry of institutions and investors, which would cause disputes. Last year, the CSRC, securities regulatory bureaus, exchanges, and members of associations handled huge amount of investor complaints. They also provided cross-border complaint handling service for investors of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect to further meet their demands. In 2015, we will continue to carry out the requirements of the regulatory meeting, be investor-oriented, and focus on solving the actual issues of investors, trying to make breakthroughs in dispute settlement; besides, we will enhance the function of investor education and perfect the system of supervision and evaluation, so as to consolidate investor protection during the regulatory transformation.   Professor Guo Li mentioned in his lecture that since individual investors constitute the majority of the market, it is determined that the current and future markets will have a large number of disputes caused by securities investment, which will have significant social impacts. The delay of dispute settlement would have negative impacts in investors’ rights and interests and securities dealers’ businesses. Currently, the number of traditional legal suit channels could not match the demand for protecting securities investors. To settle the disputes efficiently and promptly for solving conflicts and better protecting investors, especially small-and-medium-sized investors, a diversified dispute settlement mechanism should be built, with non-lawsuit solution ways for disputes to be explored as well.   Huatai Securities and China Securities gave introductions on investor education and the building of the mechanism of investor protection, relevant key points and features on the basis of the development of the market and their innovative businesses; they have been adhering to the principle of being “customer-centered” and have as their key task in investor protection the combination of “Business Development” and “Right Defending”. GF Securities suggested enhancing risk alert in securities investment to remind investors of being aware of risks. In addition, disputes with investors should be properly handled to improve its services for investors. China Merchants Securities, on the basis of its experiences in the businesses of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect and stock option, held that the training of securities employees should be strengthened to develop an atmosphere of compliance and enhance the communication with investors by organizing investor education and investor protection in various forms. According to Xiangcai Securities, the transparency of the securities market should be further enhanced, and securities companies’ function should be exerted as a major force of investor education and protection, thus cultivating more “qualified investors” for the market innovation.   This seminar is an innovative campaign organized by the SSE on the basis of past experiences and market opinions to promote investor education and protection of investors’ rights and interests in the securities market, with the securities market development and innovation and the regulatory system reform as the theme. The aim is to cluster all consensuses and market forces to jointly promote the further development of the protection of investors’ rights and interests.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Pan Xuexian: Accelerate Regulatory Transformation, Improve Regulatory Efficiency
10 Mar 2015
Pan Xuexian, Deputy to the NPC and Chairman of the Supervisors of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), said in an interview with Xinhuanet.com during the 2015 NPC and CPPCC sessions on March 9 that 2015 would be a crucial year for all-round regulatory transformation in the securities regulatory system. With the promotion of innovation and reform, the capital market’s function of serving the real economy will be further enhanced, thus fulfilling its role as a “barometer” for the real economy.   The SSE will improve its regulatory efficiency in 2 aspects during the regulatory transformation: first, it will take the opportunity of launching the registration system reform of stock issuance to establish a market-participant-featured exchange and keep improving self-regulatory rules and regulatory mode; second, it will take the regulatory transformation as a driving force to establish a responsibility-oriented exchange, urge market participants to fulfill their responsibilities, and reduce market costs and enhance market efficiency.   Pan pointed out that the SSE would adopt 4 measures to enhance the governance of listed companies. As a frontline regulator, the SSE’s “big data” tool has played an important role, and it will realize a transformation from “human-judgment-based” regulation to “technology-supported” regulation. The delisting system reform will adhere to the direction of being “market-oriented, law-based and normalized”. “Some companies have already applied for delisting voluntarily, and I believe there will be companies that are forced to be delisted due to their serious violations. So, stay tuned,” said Pan.   Interview   Topic 1: Real Economy   Q: Among many hot economic topics during the NPC and CPPCC sessions each year, the capital market, which works as the “barometer” of China’s economy, will also attract great attention. We know that the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange have held press conferences last weekend to respond to hot topics that are most concerned by the netizens. Today, we are honored to invite our distinguished guest, Pan Xuexian, Deputy to the NPC and SSE Chairman of the Supervisors. Welcome, Mr. Pan.   President Xi Jinping mentioned the “New Normal” of China’s economy during his visit in Henan Province in 2014. What will be the capital market’s role in this “new normal”? Could you introduce some new reform measures that will be adopted by the SSE in supporting the development of China’s real economy?   A: I’m very glad to receive the online interview organized by Xinhuanet.com, and I also appreciate the netizens’ concern for the SSE and me. I joined the SSE at the end of last year and for certain aspects, I’m in the process of getting familiar with. It happened to have this opportunity to learn together with the netizens. Mr. Gui Minjie, SSE Chairman of the Governors, had a press conference in the afternoon the day before yesterday, and he elaborated on the new situations and major issues of the SSE’s development. Let me follow the host and answer this question.   The “New Normal” of China’s economy is a major strategic judgment made by the CPC Central Committee on China’s current economic development. It is actually a new stable status with comprehensive optimization of economic structure, industry transformation and upgrading, as well as a development mode featuring high efficiency, low cost and sustainability. In this process, the capital market will be further consolidated as the subject in macro-economy, and its “barometer” function in adjusting the real economy will be gradually shown.   It is demonstrated in the following aspects: first, we should promote economic structure optimization by enhancing the capital market’s financing function. Efforts should be made to improve the financing environment of enterprises and increase the direct financing proportion in the market, so as to inject dynamics directly into the economy. Second, we should enhance national wealth effect through serving investors. Specifically, we should standardize investment behaviors and complete the return mechanism so that investors could share the dividends of economic reform through the capital market. Third, we should promote the industry structure adjustment through the market selection mechanism. Pains should be taken to gradually improve listed companies’ market capitalization management, enhance investor education, introduce professional institutional investors and standardize market investment behaviors. Furthermore, we should guide social capital to emerging industries and innovative industries through effective capital allocation in the market, in a bid to promote transformation and upgrading of industry structures.   In recent years, the SSE has been devoting itself to enhancing its ability in serving the real economy and has made achievements in various aspects. In the 2015 work deployment of the “Government Work Report”, Premier Li Keqiang stated clearly that we should enhance efforts in such areas as building a multi-layer capital market system and adopting the registration system reform of stock issuance. We will earnestly carry out these requirements by adopting the following measures: first, we should implement the registration system reform of IPO; second, we will explore to build a multi-layer capital market by introducing the board of emerging industries on the basis of the SSE’s existing blue chip market; third, we will gradually perfect the delisting system of listed companies; fourth, we will attract long-term funds into the market through all the possible channels.   Topic 2: Regulatory Transformation   Q: We know that the securities and futures regulatory meeting is held each year. Xiao Gang, Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), has taken the regulatory transformation as the theme of the meeting for 2 consecutive years. What are the moves of the SSE in this regard, and how could the SSE increase the efficiency of regulatory transformation?   A: 2015 is the key year for securities regulatory bodies to carry out all-round promotion of regulatory transformation. Just like what you said, CSRC Chairman Xiao Gang had mentioned the key task of regulatory transformation in the regulatory meeting for 2 consecutive years. In the process of promoting the regulatory transformation, the SSE will enhance regulatory efficiency from the following 2 aspects: first, it will take the opportunity of launching the registration system reform of stock issuance to build a market-participant-featured exchange. Efforts should be made to enhance the awareness of responsibility, improve the market regulatory ability, actively respond to the market concerns and investors’ demands, and continuously perfect the self-regulatory rules and regulatory mode; second, the regulatory transformation should be taken as a driving force to establish a responsibility-oriented exchange. Besides, by further changing the regulatory idea, mechanism and way, the SSE will urge all market participants to fulfill their responsibilities, reduce market costs, enhance market efficiency, bring off its role in safeguarding the open, fair and just market order, and protecting legitimate rights and interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors, thus promoting the sound development of the capital market, and better assume its responsibility in building an open, fair, and just market.   The SSE has realized an array of breakthroughs in the building of the blue chip market with over 1,000 listed companies and more complete industry categories. Therefore, the SSE will strengthen internal management to increase its self-regulatory efficiency in the following aspects:   (1) We will keep boosting industry regulation for listed companies. First, we will gradually establish a complete indicator and guideline system of industry information disclosure. We have already made many preparations in the early stage, including making guidelines for industry information disclosure for such major categories as petroleum, natural gas and coal. Second, we will audit listed companies’ 2014 annual reports on the basis of different industries. Third, we will adopt the concept of industry regulation in our daily regulatory work.   (2) We will further improve classified regulation on listed companies. The SSE will adopt classified regulation on listed companies from more dimensions to increase its efficiency in 2015. Specifically, the SSE will adopt classified regulation and effectively allot regulatory resources on any company that has a possibility of controlling right dispute due to highly dispersed equity, that with private equity involved, or that engaged in such emerging industries as technology, media and telecom (TMT) business but with high potential operation risk, as well as any shell company with stagnant major businesses.   (3) We should further optimize the direct channel for information disclosure. Currently, excluding minority announcements that need to be processed beforehand due to their relevance to suspension and resumption of stock trading, 85% of the announcements on the SSE market have realized direct disclosure. Listed companies can release their information directly through the SSE’s platform. The portion of direct disclosure of announcements is estimated to be over 90% in 2015. After the launch of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, investors’ demand for information disclosure at multiple time intervals is increasing. Thus, the SSE is now considering adding morning and noon sessions for information disclosure and reducing stock trading suspension to narrow the gap of the information disclosure manner between Shanghai and Hong Kong.   (4) We should enhance the quick response and transparency of regulation. The SSE adopted quick regulatory response in 2014 when handling such cases as improper information disclosure of Shanghai Prosolar Resource Co., Ltd., major asset reorganization of Guanghe Landscape Culture Communication Co., Ltd., controlling right dispute of Tibet Rhodiola Pharmaceutical Holding Co., which won positive responses from the market. In 2015, the SSE will further enhance its sense and ability of quick response to discover issues in time and provide quick and effective handling, and build a problem-oriented quick-response regulatory mechanism, with an aim to urge obligators of information disclosure to perform their duties according to law. We have made ample explorations in the preliminary stage, which have gained ideal effect and enabled us to intervene through the quick response mechanism. In addition, the SSE will make full use of its official website, micro-blog, WeChat account and press conference to timely update its regulatory standing, attitude and measures to the market, in a bid to improve its regulatory transparency. Furthermore, the SSE will enhance its research on such hot issues as “PE + listed companies” to study and develop regulatory methods in time.   Q: I want to ask a question put forward by a netizen that how the SSE will handle the situation that some listed companies deliver profits by rigging stock prices through high proportions of bonus shares and capitalized shares?   A: The SSE will regulate price manipulation and profit delivery through high proportions of bonus shares and capitalized shares in 2 aspects. On the one hand, the SSE will require listed companies to make information disclosure of dividend distribution, bonus shares and capitalization from capital public reserve more specific and effective. For example, the SSE will require listed companies to provide complete disclosure of the decision-making process after receiving a proposal of dividend distribution from shareholders, and give full disclosure of the uncertainty on whether the shareholders could submit the proposal and have it approved by the directorate. Among all the listed companies, there are state-owned enterprises, private-owned enterprises, enterprises with absolute controlling shareholders and those with relative controlling shareholders as well as enterprises with dispersed controlling rights. How to carry out the bonus shares plan suggested by major shareholders without high controlling proportion? We will require detailed disclosure for that.   On the other hand, the SSE will enhance quick response by strengthening aftermath regulation on information disclosure of high proportions of bonus shares or capitalized shares as well as abnormal fluctuations of stock prices. For example, the SSE will require shareholders who put forward the proposals of high proportions of bonus shares or capitalized shares to give clear commitment to affirmative vote during the discussion of this proposal at the shareholders’ meeting. Shareholders initializing the proposals should give affirmative vote to realize their commitment, and should give supplementary disclosure to tell whether they plan to lessen holding of shares before the proposal is approved at the shareholders’ meeting; if yes, they should give supplementary remarks on the shareholding lessening plan. After the disclosure, will the major shareholders take the chance to lessen holding of their shares? It is the greatest concern of small-and-medium investors. So, we will require disclosure of this part of information to let the market know. In addition, the SSE will cooperate with relevant departments to cement linkage between information disclosure regulation and secondary market monitoring for this type of cases, reinforce punishment on such violations as insider trading and stock price manipulation. We will cooperate with relevant departments as long as problems are detected, and strict punishments will be imposed on these violations to safeguard the “openness, fairness and justice” of the market.   Topic 3: Inspection and Law Enforcement, Frontline Regulation   Q: I remember that the CSRC has inspected some rat trading cases since last year, during which it has used big data. As we are not very clear about it, could you make some introduction? And can you reveal the plans of the SSE in strengthening the regulation?   A: The SSE has taken the initiative to explore and apply big data in facilitating the regulation since 2003. Relying on the massive amounts of data stored in the exchange’s data warehouse, the SSE started to use the “mass data statistic analysis” method to identify insider trading at the very beginning of the establishment of its supervisory system, thus successfully solving the problem of searching associated accounts. In 2013, the SSE used the big data’s “rat-catching” model and discovered a rat trading case that a former fund manager of Bosera Funds made illegal profits through undisclosed information, thus kicking off the activities of cracking down on rat trading cases. During the series activities, the SSE has always adhered to the principle of combining initiative and fairness. While taking the initiative to discover clues of cases, it has always fully scanned on all fund companies and fund managers, making sure that no case will be treated unjustly and each and every case will be reported and not indulged. The SSE has successively reported over 20 cases concerning rat trading of funds, involving the sum of over RMB10 billion.   In 2014, the SSE reported 133 pieces of clues to various cases to the CSRC, among which 88 were concerned with insider trading, 38 market manipulation, 3 rat trading, 2 undisclosed over-proportional shareholding, and 2 others. Next, the SSE will continue to make full use of big data excavation technology, develop and use various models detecting illegal transactions, and screen and lock in valuable clues, so as to realize the transformation from human-judgment-based regulation to technology-supported regulation, and thus enhance the regulatory efficiency. In the future, the SSE will do a better job in the following aspects in terms of frontline regulation:   First, the SSE will implement all the arrangements about streamlining administration and decentralizing power as well as transforming regulation made by the central authority and the CSRC. It will further enhance the SSE’s initiative in frontline regulation, strengthen the monitoring on securities trading behaviors, and crack down on behaviors violating laws and rules in securities trading, especially those concerning speculation and price manipulation by spreading various topics, which is a very important aspect, as well as the new illegal behaviors like listed companies’ “fake market capitalization management”. Besides, it will strengthen in-process intervention and aftermath clue reporting, further optimize big data’s function in discovering clues, enhance inspection on information of traditional media and we-media, and expand the sources of illegal cases.   Second, the SSE will further improve the risk prevention and control mechanism for abnormalities in market trading, and particularly make efforts in monitoring, preventing, and controlling the market risks of new businesses and mechanisms (like program trading). And it will further study to improve the mechanism of dealing with market risks, and fully implement the CSRC’s arrangement on coping with major trading abnormalities in the market.   Third, the SSE will further improve the cross-border supervision and cooperation mechanism for Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect. Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect has realized the cooperation between the two markets. Therefore, it needs to strengthen the supervision and cooperation with Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited, so as to jointly crack down on illegal cross-border securities behaviors, prevent regulatory arbitrage, make sure the steady operation of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, and maintain the legitimate rights and interests of domestic and overseas investors.   Fourth, the SSE will deepen the cross-product and cross-market regulation and cooperation, closely trace the mutual influence between stock spots and stock options, strike illegal behaviors like speculation and manipulation crossing spots and options, and strengthen the interactive regulation between securities spots and stock index futures. At present, as the coverage of the market is increasingly wider, there exists the grey space for the interaction of futures and spots. Therefore, we should further strengthen the prevention and striking efforts in this regard.   Fifth, the SSE will further promote the openness and transparency of its frontline regulatory work, publicize its frontline regulatory situation in time through traditional media and such new media as micro-blog and WeChat, and take the initiative to respond to hot issues and doubts in the market. We have started to make some attempts in this regard and achieved good results. Recently, we’ve encountered some problems concerning information disclosure. Through the SSE’s active and timely regulation as well as the timely intervention of the regulatory departments, the discovered illegal behaviors have been timely put on record and cracked down on, with desired effects achieved.   Sixth, the SSE will further enhance the technological level of its frontline regulation, optimize the supervisory function of such new products and businesses as Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect and stock option, and improve the analyzing function of the market’s big data, so as to provide greater technical guarantee for the SSE to perform its frontline regulatory function. We have mentioned at the very beginning the way we discover illegal behaviors and accounts among the massive amounts of trading data. Now, we need to strengthen our efforts in this aspect, and the technology is of great significance.   Finally, the SSE will do a better job in entrusted law enforcement. It is known that apart from regulation on members, listed companies and securities trading, entrusted law enforcement is a new regulatory responsibility endowed by the CSRC to the exchange as approved by the State Council. It is also a newly-added important function of the SSE under the background of strengthening the investigation and law enforcement efforts, and bringing off its role in safeguarding the open, fair and just market order, and protecting the legitimate rights and interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors, thus promoting the sound development of the capital market. The SSE will take all things into consideration, make comprehensive planning, and earnestly implement all work items in line with the unified arrangement of the CSRC. Thank you!   Topic 4: Dividend Distribution and Delisting   Q: I’d like to ask Mr. Pan a question concerned by netizens. With regard to dividend distribution, can you briefly work out the accounts of cash dividend of listed companies on the Shanghai market? As for delisting, we know that *ST Changyou (Nanjing Tanker Corporation) is the first delisting state-owned central enterprise last year, which has attracted wide attention. Can you make some introduction about it?   A: In terms of cash dividend, I’d like to share a set of data with you. After the unremitting efforts made by the SSE and all market participants in recent two years, listed companies’ awareness of rewarding investors with cash dividend has been obviously increased and the dividend amount has reached a high level on the whole. Judging from statistics, the number of companies distributing dividends and the total dividend amount on the SSE have both repeatedly hit new records. In 2014, a total of 674 listed companies on the Shanghai market (70.43% of the totals) implemented the cash dividend distribution program, with the total cash dividend reaching RMB670.7 billion. The amount of cash dividend took up 34.62% of the total net profit of listed companies’ shareholders, which was a relatively high proportion. With regard to specific measures, the SSE has adopted many effective measures in mainly two aspects to keep guiding listed companies to reward investors with cash dividend. On the one hand, it has adhered to the correct guidance of public opinion, organize and guide news media to publicize benchmarking companies with cash dividend on the Shanghai market, and advocate positive and healthy equity culture; on the other hand, it has intensified the aftermath regulation for cash dividend distribution by requiring companies not reaching the cash dividend standard to provide online voting means, bringing convenience for small and medium-sized investors to exercise their shareholders’ rights. In other words, the collective decision-making is realized with the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises, instead of the final say of only major shareholders. Besides, the SSE has also urged listed companies to hold briefings for investors, so that small and medium-sized shareholders can know why listed companies don’t distribute dividend. In this way, we offer them the convenience to participate in major shareholders’ decision-making process, which might influence their decision-making. In addition, the SSE has required major shareholders to hold briefings for small and medium-sized investors to clearly explain to them the usage of funds. It can be said that all these measures have achieved good results.   In terms of delisting, the SSE has always believed that the delisting system reform should stick to the development direction of “marketization, legalization, and normalization”, which will help to further display the market function and contain and deter major illegal behaviors. With regard to the improvement of delisting system, the SSE has organized special forces in 2014 to take part in the CSRC’s discussion and research on the delisting system’s revision and improvement. After that, it has revised its relevant supporting rules and newly added the disposal rules for voluntary delisting and delisting caused by severe illegal acts. In other words, one company may choose to be delisted voluntarily. In addition, in line with the regulations of the CSRC, the exchange has also been promoting the compulsory delisting of listed companies with severe illegal acts. In this aspect, the SSE has formulated related rules. At the same time, it has made clear the relevant arrangements for listed companies after delisting, including trading arrangements before listing termination, and re-listing arrangements after listing termination. After the new delisting system came into force, the SSE also fully sorted out the potential delisting risks of companies with continuous losses and those put on file for investigation, so as to better disclose the delisting risks of these companies.   As for the risk disposal of delisted companies, the SSE has, based on the information disclosure regulation, formulated positive and effective overall response plans for delisting risks to protect the interests of small and medium-sized investors, striving to implement the risk resolution work for delisted companies. For example, the delisting of *ST Changyou in 2014, which is the first state-owned central enterprise delisted from China’s securities market, went through complex delisting procedures and exerted great social influence. The SSE, according to the overall arrangement of the CSRC, made active response, took the initiative to respond to social concerns, and ensured the steady delisting of Changyou by comprehensively using many delisting guarantee mechanisms such as the first order guarantee mechanism during delisting arrangement period, the emergency disposing mechanism for emergencies, the response mechanism for public opinions, and the quick response mechanism. The market response to this case is very positive. It can be learnt from the public disclosure in this year that there have been companies voluntarily applying for delisting. I believe that there will be compulsory delisting cases caused by severe illegal acts before long. Let’s stay tuned. Thank you.   Topic 5: Proposals at the Two Sessions   Q: The 2015 NPC and CPPCC sessions are convening now. There must be some topics of your greatest concern and some suggestions of your own. Could you share them with us?   Q: I have the following three suggestions on the exchange’s work at the two sessions. The first is about the legislation of the “Rules on Regulation over Trading Venues”. In recent years, trading venues of massive amount and various types have appeared in China, which has generally met the economic development demand. However, some trading venues have diverted from the basic orientation of serving the real economy and presented the tendency of divorcing from the reality and no funds flowing from the market into the real economy. Various problems like damaging the rights and interests of investors have occurred frequently. So, I suggested improving the long-term regulatory mechanism over trading venues and including the “Rules on Regulation over Trading Venues” into the legislation plan of the State Council. Besides, administrative laws and rules on the regulation over various trading venues should be formulated to make clear the conditions and procedures of setting up trading venues, as well as the code of conduct, the regulatory system, the regulatory measures, and the legal liabilities of trading venues and relevant parties, so as to provide solid legal protection for the sound development of trading venues.   My second suggestion is about increasing the line for RMB Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors (RQFII) in Hong Kong. At present, RQFII is an important tool for China to further open up its capital market, promote the internationalization of RMB, and support domestic securities institutions to develop cross-border business. This pilot was launched in 2011 and at present the RQFII line of RMB270 billion in Hong Kong has been nearly used up. Therefore, it is in urgent need of increasing the line. I suggest relevant departments should make overall consideration and further increase the line for RQFIIs in Hong Kong.   My third suggestion is about optimizing the tax system for the mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations of listed companies. Under the current background of the transformation and upgrading as well as the optimization and adjustment of industry structure, “adjusting structure” and “promoting development” have been mentioned in the Premier’s report. As more and more listed companies and other enterprises have conducted mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations, the Premier specially pointed out in his report that the mixed ownership reform of state-owned enterprises should be steadily promoted. The active mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations are of great benefit for us to adjust the industries and make listed companies larger and stronger. But judging from the practices, the tax burden is very heavy for the mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations of listed companies, and the current preferential and supporting policies are not enough. Though relevant departments have made great supports and adjustments in this regard, we still believe there is a great gap compared with the actual demand. In the mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations among different enterprises inside the state-owned enterprises and those concerning the mixed ownership, the SSE has found that some companies have given up their mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations or can’t go on due to the tax issue. Therefore, it is necessary to further improve the existing tax system and give full play to the incentive function of tax revenue. And I have specially proposed a suggestion in this regard. Thank you.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Gui Minjie: To Transform SSE into A Modern Exchange
09 Mar 2015
Conditions for stock issuance and listing should be adjusted in the registration system reform, and the exchange will be responsible for examination and approval, which is the mainstream scheme. Operations of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect and the SSE 50 ETF option will be perfected, with their underlyings to be expanded. Diversified listing indicators will be set in the board of emerging industries, and listing of A shares of internet enterprises will be supported. An independent bond market management system will be established for promotion of a multi-layer bond market. The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has embraced new opportunities for its transformation into a modern exchange by launching the registration system reform of stock issuance, Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, stock option and other innovative and reform measures.   On March 7, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) held the press conference for deputies to the NPC and members of the CPPCC National Committee in the securities regulatory system. Gui Minjie, Member of the CPPCC National Committee and SSE Chairman of the Governors, introduced at the conference the SSE’s plans in terms of the construction of the blue-chip market, the registration system reform of stock issuance, Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect and the SSE 50 ETF option.   Gui said that the existing conditions for stock issuance and listing should be adjusted in the registration system reform. Currently, the mainstream scheme is that the exchange will be in charge of examination and approval of public offering of securities. Decentralization of examination and approval authority will not lead to vicious competition among exchanges.   Besides, he revealed that on the basis of ensuring stable operation, the operations of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect and the SSE 50 ETF option would be perfected, with their underlyings to be expanded.   Promotion of registration system reform on a steady track Gui said that the whole scheme of the registration system was still in the process of demonstration for approval. The registration system reform will mainly involve general framework design, reform scheme formulation, amendment to the “Securities Law”, supporting measures and rules, arrangement for examination and approval personnel, publicity and training of the new system, and transition from the old system to the new one.   As to the question that who will examine and how to examine under the registration system, Gui said that the registration system does not mean no examination. Judging from the current situation, the mainstream scheme is that the exchange will take charge of the examination and approval. There are still some conditions for issuance and listing in the registration system, and the examination and approval work will focus on the effects of information disclosure, which means that enterprises are required to make themselves understood by investors judging their advantages and disadvantages.   Gui held that the roles and responsibilities of intermediaries should be further emphasized for the registration system, and the intermediaries should assume legal responsibilities. More efforts should be made to investigate and crack down on enterprises and individuals who commit violations, practice fraud and conceal information. Meanwhile, the internal layering of the SSE stock market should be propelled by making full use of the registration system reform to adjust conditions for issuance and listing.   For the question concerned by the market that the decentralization of examination and approval authority might lead to vicious competition among exchanges, Gui believed that the decentralization would not result in vicious competition. As market organizers, exchanges will attach more importance to improve its ability in serving the real economy under the supervision of regulatory departments and media.   Will listing of China’s mainland enterprises in Hong Kong market be affected by the registration system reform? Gui clarified that as China boasts rich resources for listing, enterprises in China’s mainland choosing to be listed in Hong Kong market have shown their demands of expanding international business, participating in global competition, and enhancing reputations in the world. Compared with the A-share market, the Hong Kong market has its own advantages, so the registration system reform will not affect China’s mainland enterprises listing in Hong Kong market. There will be no such problem as scrambling for listing resources.   Expanding the underlyings of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect and the SSE 50 ETF option The launch of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect and the SSE 50 ETF option on the SSE since last year has not only expanded the SSE’s market and increased its market thickness, but also added for the first time the product line of exchange-traded option, bringing connections to the spot market and futures market and ending the era of linear profit and loss in the market, which bears great significance.   Gui said that the general operation of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect and the SSE 50 ETF option had met expectations, and the mechanism of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect would be further optimized to bring consistent solutions to factors that limit investors to trade through Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect. Besides, the SSE will further promote trading mechanism innovation, research and promote the establishment of margin trading and securities lending as well as line expansion under the Hong Kong Stock Connect.   Gui also responded to the stagnant trading and inactive account opening of the SSE 50 ETF option. He thought that the current pricing of the SSE 50 ETF option contract is reasonable, as the market makers are playing the roles in guiding reasonable quotations and offering market liquidity. The reason for stagnant trading is that the system design for option is to ensure its smooth start and stable operation.   According to introduction, the SSE will further improve the margin mechanism for ETF option, including portfolio strategy and securities used as margin to increase the efficiency of securities and capitals, thus lowering the cost of using options to hedge risks. The SSE will further expand the scope of the underlyings of ETF option, research and launch single stock options, and options with more flexible exercise manners and periods, such as American option, weekly option and long-term option.   In addition, there will be breakthroughs in establishment of the SSE’s International Financial Asset Trading Platform in the Shanghai free trade zone. According to Gui, the positioning of the platform mainly includes: providing financing services for enterprises in the free trade zone; enabling overseas investors to trade stocks, bonds and funds through the free trade accounts and the trading platform; exploring to involve foreign capitals in the primary market, such as introduction of overseas institutional investors to participate in inquiry placing of domestic IPO, and providing trading services for securities and futures dealers that do cross-border investment as agents of their clients; and seeking to have qualified overseas enterprises issue RMB bonds.   Building an independent bond market management system, and setting up diversified listing indicators for the board of emerging industries During the NPC and CPPCC sessions of last year, Gui submitted the proposal of establishing the board of emerging industries on the SSE. As for the progress concerning the board, Gui said that the SSE would, in light of the registration system reform and the amendment to the “Securities Law”, prepare for launch of the board in due time for the internal layering of the market.   As for the listing standards of the board, Gui said that diversified listing indicators would be adopted for the board, with such financial standards as “market capitalization + business income + profit” or “market capitalization + business income + liquidity”. Diversification of some non-financial standards will also be considered, in a bid to support the listing of A-shares of internet enterprises.   Notably, Gui also introduced the SSE’s plans in construction of the bond market. According to him, in its next step, the SSE will go all out to develop the exchange-traded bond market, broaden the market scale, attract bond issuers, further enhance market efficiency, simplify issuance and listing procedures, strengthen product innovation, study and promote major securitizable underlying assets, and expand the scale of assets securitization. Besides, a complete chain system for the issuance, listing, trading, information disclosure and follow-up management of municipal and corporate bonds will be established for their development. Moreover, the obstacles met by domestic and overseas institutional investors in trading in the exchange-traded bond market will be eliminated.   Gui said the SSE would establish an independent bond market management system according to rules of the bond market. It will improve relevant supporting systems and technological systems, establish the system for the development of the bond market that is comparatively independent of the stock market, promote the building of a multi-layer bond market, and improve the technological system of the bond market.   Source: Shanghai Securities News

Gui Minjie Suggests Establishing Shanghai Financial Court
07 Mar 2015
Gui Minjie, Member of the CPPCC National Committee and Chairman of the Governors of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), has recently submitted 2 proposals at the NPC and CPPCC sessions, namely, the “Suggestion on Specifying Tax Policies for Asset Securitization” and the “Suggestion on Establishing Financial Court in Shanghai”.   For the second proposal, Gui held that the existing judicial trial faces great challenges in dealing with the financial cases which are highly professional and influential and result in new issues and rules. Judicial authorities should research in such aspects as subject, expression, application of law, judgment execution and case effect for the international disputes and lawsuits caused by finance internationalization. In the new situation of financial reform and development, it is essential and pressing to establish a special financial court.   To solve professional financial cases requires a professional trial team; to enhance judicial guarantee for the registration system requires a consistent trial standard; and the importance of judgment result asks for a special trial organization. All these factors make it necessary to establish a financial court. By taking advantage of the judicial reform, the solid foundation in financial trial and the experience in centralized jurisdiction, Shanghai is qualified to establish a special financial court in the process of speeding up the building of the international finance center.   Therefore, Gui suggested that referring to the practice of co-establishing Shanghai Intellectual Property Right Court and Shanghai No. 3 Intermediate People’s Court (including the railway intermediate court; one organization with three titles; “independent trial and integrated administration”), Shanghai Financial Court should be established in the principle of “streamlined, high efficiency and delayering” in Shanghai No. 1 Intermediate People’s Court at the first stage, so as to handle appeals about financial cases from Shanghai grass-root courts and accept first-trial financial cases within the jurisdiction of the intermediate court, before establishing an independent financial court at a proper time.   In addition, Gui also advised that related departments should further determine the tax policies for asset securitization.   To separate risks, a procedural section has been designed in asset securitization to transfer underlying assets to special purpose vehicle (SPV) and have SPV operate and conduct income distribution.   Gui held that since SPV is not a real entity and its income will be completely transferred to the ultimate holder, it should not be regarded as an independent subject of tax payment. SPV will not cause repeated taxation in asset securitization, which is called the “principle of tax neutrality”. This principle, widely adopted in the mature markets, is a key factor in promoting the development of asset securitization and lowering investment and financing costs of participating entities.   Therefore, Gui suggested that the Ministry of Finance, the State Administration of Taxation and the Legislative Affair Office of the State Council should specify the tax policies of asset securitization for Chinese enterprises by referring to domestic and overseas taxation systems in asset securitization as well as China’s legal environment for taxation. Specifically, it includes 3 aspects:   First, we should refer to the “principle of tax neutrality” in the “Notice of Taxation Policies for Credit Asset Securitization” (Cai Shui [2006] No. 5 Document) when offering equal preferential taxation policies to enterprise asset securitization and credit asset securitization, so as to avoid double taxation by specifying the taxation policies in each link of enterprise asset securitization.   Second, we should develop specific taxation policies for SPV by referring to practices in mature markets such as the U.S. market to provide preferential policies at system level for SPV engaging in asset securitization, thus facilitating the structural design of asset securitization, and supporting the development of asset securitization.   Third, we should refer to the practices adopted by Taiwan and Hong Kong and study to reduce the tax burden of securitization business with real estate as the underlying assets through separate legislation or amending such laws and regulations as the “Provisional Regulations on Business Tax”, the “Provisional Regulations on Land Value-added Tax” and the “Provisional Regulations on Contract Tax”, so as to liquidize such existing assets as real estates.   Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE Bond Market Liquidity to Be Improved with Entry of Money Brokers
02 Mar 2015
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) released the “Notice on Relevant Issues of SSE Bond Market’s Institutional Investors Accepting Services of Money Brokers” on March 2, specifying issues on intermediary services provided by money brokers for bond trading upon entrustment by institutional investors in the SSE bond market. The market holds that investors in the exchange-traded bond market could make their transactions easier with the help of money brokers, which will play a positive role in improving the liquidity of the secondary bond market.   As information and trading intermediaries, money brokers are professional organizations in the financial market that provide information for trading of financial products and facilitate trading. In international mature markets, money brokers have served as intermediaries for trading financial instruments. They have played an important role in the financial market with their businesses covering major products on the currency, capital and foreign exchange markets. Money brokers were first introduced in China in 2005. Now, 5 money brokers, including Shanghai CFETS-ICAP International Money Broking Co., Ltd., Tullett Prebon SITICO (China) Ltd., Ping An Tradition International Money Broking Company Ltd., China Credit BGC Money Broking Company Limited and CITIC Central Tanshi Money Broking Company Limited, were approved by the China Banking Regulatory Commission to run brokerage business in domestic and overseas foreign exchange, currency, bond and derivatives markets. In accordance with related regulations, the services provided by them are financial intermediary services. Different from the existing securities brokerage businesses run by securities companies, money brokers serve as intermediaries to provide information for both transaction parties and facilitate trading through electronic technologies and other means, and charge the entrusting parties service commission according to agreed rates. They do not run proprietary business or conduct trading or settlement on behalf of their clients.   According to an SSE official, the introduction of money brokers in the bond market is a common practice in international bond markets. Money brokers can supplement and support the market-making system. The introduction of money brokers in the SSE bond market is essential to meet market demand, improve the price discovery mechanism and build the multi-layer bond market. Since different products are different in standard and liquidity, the bond market needs diversified trading modes. Investors could fully understand the supply and demand of the market through trading information collected and sent by money brokers, which could reduce information asymmetry, thus lower trading cost, promote price discovery and increase trading efficiency. For the bond products listed or transferred on the SSE, such as bonds, asset backed securities (ABS) and agreed repo of bonds, market participants could decide by themselves whether to trade through money brokers.   According to the notice, institutional investors in the SSE bond market could entrust money brokers with providing services to facilitate their transactions. These bond products include SSE-listed bonds (ABS included), bond repurchase, bond derivatives and other related products. After an investor reaches a transaction intention through a money broker, both sides of the transaction should order through the trading system and conclude the deal after being confirmed by the exchange.   Notice on Relevant Issues of SSE Bond Market’s Institutional Investors Accepting Services of Money Brokers   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Releases 2014 Regulatory Whitepaper, Self-regulation Presents 7 Features
02 Mar 2015
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently released the “2014 SSE Self-regulation Work Report”, comprehensively summarizing its self-regulatory work in 2014 from 7 aspects such as improving regulatory transparency, optimizing information disclosure means, enhancing regulation on abnormal market fluctuation, and accelerating the transformation of regulatory method.   The report holds that as a major body of market self-regulation, the SSE plays an important role in ensuring fairness, standardization and stability of the market as it is on the frontline of market regulation with such advantages as being promptly and flexibly responsive to market changes. After decentralization of some administrative and approval rights to the exchange, the SSE should accelerate the regulatory transformation to comprehensively promote its self-regulatory work towards being market-oriented, law-based, open and international by adhering to the concept of “transparent regulation based on laws”.   According to the report, 2014 is the starting year of deepening China’s all-round reform. Being positive towards reform and innovation, the SSE has made full use of leading, promoting and guaranteeing functions of rule of law in its reform and innovation, by releasing such innovative businesses as Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect. With accelerated promotion of the strategies of stocks, bonds, derivatives and internationalization, the SSE’s self-regulation has presented 7 major features of being law-based, transparent, active, technological, balanced, coordinated and service-oriented. Now, its market self-regulation has stepped into a new stage.   First, the SSE has been adhering to the principle of law-based self-regulation in its system building. It emphasizes “priority of rules” and attaches importance to giving full play to the fundamental role of the work of comprehensively developing rules in its self-regulation. Besides, it keeps improving the transparency of self-regulation, enhancing “sunshine” self-regulation. Second, with regard to the regulation of listed companies, it has optimized information disclosure means, studied and promoted an “active” mode for regulation of listed companies, kept optimizing the direct channel for information disclosure, and enhanced in-process and aftermath regulation; it has enhanced the rapid response mechanism and improved its ability of dealing with hot issues; it has promoted industry regulation and classified regulation, strictly implemented the delisting system, and actively resolved market risks. Third, with regard to the regulation on abnormal market fluctuations, it has adopted more “technological” self-regulatory means by adopting such hi-tech means as big data to realize on the whole the transformation from the traditional regulatory mode with experience-based judgment to the new regulatory mode combining technologies with experience-based judgment; it has expanded the source of clues, improved its ability in detecting clues of violations, and further coordinated with inspection and law-enforcement departments; it has strengthened the monitoring and investigation on abnormal trading to maintain trading orders. In 2014, a total of 271 abnormal transactions were investigated and handled, and over 100 cases of insider trading and market manipulation were reported, which provided ample clues for inspection and law enforcement. Fourth, it has developed and perfected the risk control mechanism for abnormal market fluctuation, further improved relevant contingency measures, and established the rapid response system for information on abnormal market fluctuation. Fifth, it has accelerated the transformation of regulatory method through building the “coordinated” self-regulatory system. Sixth, it continues to educate investors and focus on the “service-oriented” investor protection. Seventh, it has discussed 38 disciplinary penalty cases and adopted such disciplinary penalties as public condemnation, criticism notice, and public identification that certain people are not suitable to take the position of director, supervisor or senior executive.   In addition, the report has also made an outlook on the SSE’s self-regulation in 2015. In its next step, the SSE will further transform its regulatory philosophy, mechanism and method on the basis of regulatory transformation, urge market entities to fulfill their functions, reduce market costs, increase market efficiency, and bring off its role in safeguarding the open, fair and just market order, and protecting legitimate rights and interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors, thus promoting the sound development of the capital market, and better assume its responsibility in building an open, fair and just market. First, a regulatory concept with information disclosure as the core will be established to continuously shift the self-regulation to in-process and aftermath regulation; second, it will improve the self-regulatory rule system and boost the registration system reform of stock issuance. Third, it will improve the investor protection mechanism and enhance its investor protection service. Fourth, it will bring innovation to the market regulation and fully cooperate with entrusted law enforcement.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Launches Collateralized Agreed Repo of Bonds for Growth of Corporate Bonds, Asset Securitization Market
16 Feb 2015
To promote the development of the bond market and increase the liquidity of various bonds and asset backed securities (ABS), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) officially releases the “SSE Provisional Measures on Trading of Collateralized Agreed Repo of Bonds” and relevant guidelines today (February 16), marking the formal launch of collateralized agreed repo of bonds.   An SSE official introduces that the SSE’s existing collateralized repo of bonds adopts the trading settlement mechanism of auction and guaranteed delivery, and takes the standard bond system for accounting of the value of pledged bonds, which has provided the market with an effective liquidity management instrument. However, some bonds and ABSs can only be engaged in spot trading and cannot go through repo financing. Agreed repo is a helpful supplement to the SSE’s current collateralized repo of bonds, which can provide various bonds with more flexible repo trading and settlement mechanism, help to expand the investment group of corporate bonds and asset securitization products, and enhance the liquidity of the secondary market.   Agreed repo is a standard product of the exchange-traded market and a kind of collateralized repo traded between trading parties through independent negotiation. Its major systematical arrangements and features are as follow:   The first is the investor suitability management system. The participants of agreed repo should be eligible and qualified investors, and they should sign the master repo agreement before engaging in the business. In addition, brokerage clients of securities companies should sign the risk disclosure statement. At the beginning of the business, the financing party is temporarily limited to financial institutions and the wealth management products issued by them. Other qualified investors can only lend out money, with the scope of the financing party to be adjusted later according to their business situation.   The second is the trading time. The application time for agreed repo is from 09:30 to 11:30 and from 13:00 to 15:15 every trading day. The extension of the trading time to 15:15 can leave room in advance for investors’ demands for after-hours trading and position management.   The third is the trading settlement method. The pledged bonds for agreed repo include various bonds, ABSs, and other fixed income products traded or transferred on the SSE. The type, conversion ratio, repo time limit, interest rate, and other trading elements and methods of the pledged bonds for repo are decided by the trading parities through independent negotiation. But the repo term cannot exceed 365 days. Once the agreed repo is concluded, China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd. (CSDC) will provide real-time non-guaranteed delivery service for each order.   The fourth is the duration and expiration management. Agreed repo offers functions of changing pledged bonds and continuing after expiration. During the duration for repo, both parties can change the pledged bonds or terminate them in advance through negotiation. When the repo expires, the sell repo party can choose to settle after expiration or to continue after expiration. In the case of continuing after expiration, netting settlement can be conducted for the receivable fund for continuing and the payable fund for expiration of the sell repo party, thus enhancing the fund use efficiency.   The fifth is the risk control and default disposal. The disposal for repo default is mainly decided by market participants through independent negotiation. If an agreement on pledged bonds disposal has been made between the trading parties, CSDC will provide a quick disposal channel, disposing of the pledged bonds by either canceling the registration of pledge or non-traded transferring to the observant party. The SSE will strengthen self-regulation over malicious default behaviors.   An SSE official says that the launch of agreed repo will help to increase the liquidity of the secondary bond market and promote the sound development of the corporate bonds and asset securitization market. The SSE will further improve the market infrastructure, earnestly promote innovation in trading products and trading mechanisms of bonds, strengthen the investor protection mechanism, and promote the steady development of the bond market. 　 Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Launching Ceremony of Stock Option Held
09 Feb 2015
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) today holds the ceremony for launching of stock option. Han Zheng, Member of the CPC Central Committee Political Bureau and Chief of the CPC Shanghai Municipal Committee, and Xiao Gang, Party Chief and Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Committee (CSRC), jointly struck the gong to open the stock option market. Yang Xiong, Mayor of Shanghai, and Gui Minjie, SSE Chairman of the Governors, unveiled the SSE 50 ETF option contract. Yao Gang, Vice Chairman of the CSRC, and Huang Hongyuan, SSE President, delivered speeches. Wish smooth and stable operation of the SSE 50 ETF option!  

SSE Turned into Comprehensive Exchange with SSE 50 ETF Option Launched
09 Feb 2015
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) embraces another historical moment on February 9. The launch of the SSE 50 ETF option contract, the first stock option product, marks the entry of China’s capital market into the era of option. This means that the SSE has become the first comprehensive exchange in China with a product line ranging from the spot market to the derivatives market, and also that China’s capital market has gained in-depth development and become more complete. All this will further promote Shanghai’s status as an international financial center and enhance its global influence.   A simple yet solemn ceremony is held by the SSE for the launch of stock option. Han Zheng, Member of the CPC Central Committee Political Bureau and Chief of the CPC Shanghai Municipal Committee, and Xiao Gang, Party Chief and Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Committee (CSRC), jointly strike the gong for the first trading day of the SSE 50 ETF option contract. Yang Xiong, Mayor of Shanghai, and Gui Minjie, SSE Chairman of the Governors, unveil the product. Yao Gang, Vice Chairman of the CSRC, and Huang Hongyuan, SSE President, deliver speeches.   First developed in the U.S. in the early 1970s, stock option is now the fundamental and mature risk management instrument on the global capital market. It accounted for about 50% of the derivatives trading volume on major exchanges around the world in 2013. The development of stock option business has great significance in further improving the price signal function of the capital market, diversifying risk management instruments, increasing the capital market’s pricing efficiency, encouraging value investing and building China’s blue chip market.   As a brand new product in China’s capital market, the SSE 50 ETF option has won great popularity among investors. The trading is generally stable in the whole day, which meets the market expectation.   According to the SSE’s data, a total of 40 SSE 50 ETF option contracts are traded on February 9, including call option and put option, with 4 contract months (March, April, June and September) and 5 exercise prices.   The first trading day of SSE 50 ETF option sees stable operation, with the volume of 18,843 contracts among which 11,320 are call option contracts and 7,523 put option contracts; the turnover of premium reaches RMB28.7 million and the nominal value traded is RMB431.8 million; the open interest totals 11,720 contracts. The trading results well satisfy the market expectation.   In general, the market participants are rational. A total of 542 accounts participate in the trading, including 492 individual investors and 50 institutional investors. The volume/position ratio is 1.61 before hedging, and 2.17 after hedging, much lower than 10, the volume/position ratios of the U.S. option market and the China Financial Futures Exchange’s stock index futures market.   The pricing of the SSE 50 ETF option on its first trading day is reasonable. The deviation level of 1.47% between the trading price and the theoretical price calculated according to the option pricing formula most frequently used in the international derivatives market is far lower than 10%, the deviation level of the mature markets. There is no price inversion on the first trading day, as the prices of the in-the-money contracts are higher than those of the out-of-the-money contracts, and the prices of the deferred month contracts are also higher than those of the near month contracts. In addition, the put/call ratio of 0.66 representing investors’ expectation on underlying securities market (lower than 1 means positive expectation on the market), is consistent with the rally of the SSE 50 ETF on that day. Generally speaking, the correlation between futures and spot is in an ideal condition.   According to the performance on the first day, the SSE 50 ETF option plays a positive role in enhancing the spot market’s confidence. It had been expected that the market index would experience certain adjustment this Monday, as bearish news kept emerging last weekend, including that securities dealers were prohibited to sell umbrella trust, and that regulatory departments reiterated the access threshold for margin trading and securities lending. However, the SSE Composite Index closes with a rise of 0.62%, and the SSE 50 Index an increase of 1.79% (much more than that of the SSE Composite Index), which means the general recognition of the SSE 50 ETF option. It also means that the launch of stock option, similar to that in mature markets, has a positive contribution to the increase of the securities market’s liquidity and investors’ confidence.   Yao Gang: 3 benefits from stock option Yao Gang says in his speech that the launch of the SSE 50 ETF option marks a breakthrough of the SSE’s innovative development and a new progress in the construction of the multi-tier capital market; it also injects new energy for turning Shanghai into a global financial center. The pilot of the stock ETF option trading on the stock exchange is an important measure to carry out the requirements in the “Some Opinions of the State Council on Further Propelling Sound Growth of the Capital Market”, which could diversify investors’ trading strategies and risk management measures, improve the price discovery mechanism of the capital market, as well as enhance the stock exchange’s leading position and promote innovative development of securities and futures dealers.   Yao adds that stock option is a risk management instrument, yet it could lead to new risks. To take advantage of its unique functions requires efforts of all market participants. We should do a better job in investor education, service provision, risk management and control, and market regulation.   Yao says that stock ETF option is the first derivatives product across the futures and spot markets settled with the delivery of the stock ETF at the settlement day, therefore posing new challenges for our traditional regulatory mode featuring separate monitoring and supervision over the futures and spot markets. The CSRC will enhance regulation over each link on the stock ETF option market, and crack down on illegal deeds such as market manipulation and insider trading, so as to protect the legitimate rights and interests of investors. Besides, we will timely sum up experience to improve the systems and rules, with an aim to promote the healthy development of the market.   Huang Hongyuan: 4 expectations for stock option Huang Hongyuan says in his speech that stock option is a mature derivative in the global market as well as a fundamental risk management instrument. Like the function of insurance in real economy, stock option could also transfer risks. Stock option will become a pioneering product to open up the future development of the market.   Huang expects that the stock option could boost market innovation in the future, as it could provide investors with diversified choices, support product innovation and diversify trading strategies. He also expects that the stock option could increase the market efficiency by fully reflecting market expectations, increasing market pricing efficiency, and promoting capital generation. Among his other expectations, the stock option could serve as a tool to improve investor structure by helping investors get rid of the constrains of linear profit and loss, and meeting the “principal safety and value investing” demand of insurance capital, social security funds, pension funds and other long-term funds for improvement of the market’s capital structure. Furthermore, he expects that the stock option could impel the future development of the SSE and the industry. The SSE will build itself into the first exchange providing both spot and futures in China, better bring off its functions of securities pricing, risk management and asset allocation as a liquidity center, enhance the depth and attractiveness of its blue-chip market, and contribute to the construction of Shanghai International Financial Center.   Huang also says that the stock option is a complex risk management instrument which remains to be new in China and unfamiliar to investors, who still need time to study and learn. Therefore, at the preliminary stage after the launch of the stock option, the SSE has set up a high threshold for investors and taken strict risk control measures. The SSE won’t expect brisk trading during the initial period after the launch or an immediate demonstration of its functions. Instead, the SSE prefers to have a long-term perspective to ensure its smooth start and stable operation. We believe that with the accumulation of investors’ experience and their improved level in practice, the functions of stock option will definitely be manifested. We hope that investors, industry institutions and the media can fully understand our prudent considerations in the process of promoting innovation.   Witnessed by honorable guests, Han Zheng and Xiao Gang jointly strike the gong to declare the official launch of the SSE 50 ETF option contract.   Among those invited to witness this historical moment are honorable guests from relevant ministries and commissions of the State and their agencies in Shanghai, Shanghai Municipal Party Committee and Shanghai Municipal People’s Government, the securities and futures regulatory systems, financial institutions in Shanghai, market institutions and news media.

CSRC Vice Chairman’s Speech at Launching Ceremony of SSE 50 ETF Option
09 Feb 2015
Today, the SSE 50 ETF option is officially launched and traded on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), heralding the development of China’s option market. As the first option product in China’s capital market, it fills the gap of the product of its kind on the stock exchanges in China, marking the new breakthrough in innovation and development as well as the new progress in the construction of the multi-tier capital market made by the SSE, and injecting new vitality in building Shanghai into an international financial center.   The pilot for trading of stock ETF option on stock exchanges, an important measure to implement the requirements in the “Some Opinions of the State Council on Further Propelling Sound Growth of the Capital Market”, is conducive to enriching the trading strategies and means of risk management for investors, improving the price discovery mechanism of the capital market, increasing the liquidity of underlying stocks, and propelling the innovative development of the securities and futures dealers. As the first ETF product, the SSE 50 ETF, featuring large size, high liquidity and strong resistance to manipulations, is an ideal product ready for option trading. With the strict risk control arrangement, we believe that the pilot will be risk controllable for steady promotion.   Stock ETF option is a mature derivative instrument on the international capital market, but it is a completely new product in China. With extremely complex combinations in application, it is like a double-edged sword which could serve as an instrument for risk management and also lead to new risks. It is necessary for all market participants to make concerted efforts in drawing on advantages and avoiding disadvantages of this new instrument to make effective use of it and give full play to its unique role.   First, we should make effective efforts in education and service for the investors. When providing the business of stock ETF option, securities and futures companies should brief investors on its features, rules and risks clearly, completely and adequately, and strictly implement the requirements for investor suitability management. All investors should be earnest in mastering and understanding the knowledge of the stock ETF option, comply with relevant regulations, prudently assess the risks, and rationally participate in the trading.   Second, we should make effective efforts in management and control of risks. Without strict and adequate risk management, the derivatives market will not achieve healthy development. As the first standard derivatives product listed on a stock exchange, the stock ETF option is also new to the market organizers and participants who have been long engaged in spot securities trading, and the market making for option is also a new business. The SSE and China Securities Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd. (CSDC) should transform their spot-oriented concept, accurately master the features of derivatives trading, be fully aware of the risks, set up and improve the risk control measures, tighten up risk management, effectively prevent the systematic risks, and maintain the smooth operation of the market.   Third, we should make effective efforts in market regulation. As the first derivatives product across the futures and spot markets settled with the delivery of the stock ETF at the settlement day, the stock ETF option has posed new challenges for our traditional regulation mode featuring separate monitoring and supervision over the futures and spot markets. The SSE, CSDC, China Securities Investor Protection Fund Corporation Limited, China Futures Margin Monitoring Center Co., Ltd., industry associations and other institutions should effectively take their responsibilities of frontline regulation, strengthen information sharing and joint regulation, detect the clues of violations and timely take the self-regulatory measures. The China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) will intensify the regulation over all processes of the operation of the stock ETF option market, severely crack down on market manipulation, insider trading and other violations, and effectively protect the legitimate rights and interests of investors. Meanwhile, we will timely sum up experience to improve the systems and rules, so as to promote the healthy development of the market.   Finally, I sincerely wish the SSE 50 ETF option a smooth start and sound development!   Thank you all!   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE President’s Speech at Launching Ceremony of Stock Option
09 Feb 2015
First of all, I’d like to, on behalf of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), extend my warm welcome and gratitude to all of you attending the launching ceremony of stock option today.   The sound of gong for the launch of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect still lingers in the air, and today we get together again to witness another significant moment in the reform and innovation of China’s capital market.   The launch of stock option is another achievement made by the SSE in its new round of development. As early as 2000, the SSE initiated the preliminary study and laboratory validation for option and other derivatives. Since 2013, accelerated breakthrough and full preparation have been made for stock option under the support and guidance of Xiao Gang, Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), and Yao Gang, Vice Chairman of the CSRC, and under the direct leadership of Gui Minjie, SSE Chairman of the Governors. The successful launch of the stock option is based on our unremitting efforts and strong will. Here, we’d like to express our heartfelt thanks and respect to officials and friends from relevant ministries and commissions of the State Council, Shanghai Municipal Party Committee and Shanghai Municipal People’s Government, the CSRC and its agencies, counterpart units, industry organizations, news media and our partner China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd. (CSDC) who have cared about and supported for years the SSE’s reform and development, especially the innovation of stock option.   Stock option, one of the mature derivatives in the international market, is a fundamental risk management instrument. Like insurance in the real economy, it has a special function of risk transfer. We expect that the stock option will be a pioneering product to open up the future development of the market:   -- We expect it to boost market innovation in the future. With it, we could provide investors with diversified choices, support product innovation, and enrich trading strategies. -- We expect it to increase market efficiency in the future. With it, we could fully reflect market expectation, enhance market pricing efficiency, and promote capital generation. -- We expect it to improve investor structure in the future. With it, we could help investors get rid of the constraint of linear profit and loss, satisfy the “safe principal and value investing” demand of insurance capital, social security funds, pension funds, and other long-term funds, and improve the market’s capital structure. -- We expect it to impel the future development of the SSE and the industry. The SSE will build itself into the first exchange providing both spots and futures in China, better bring off its functions of securities pricing, risk management, asset allocation and liquidity center, enhance the depth and attractiveness of its blue-chip market, and contribute to the construction of Shanghai International Financial Center.   As a complicated risk management instrument, stock option is new to Chinese investors who still need time to study and learn. Therefore, at the preliminary stage after the launch of the stock option, the SSE has set up a high threshold for investors and taken strict risk control measures. We won’t expect brisk trading during the initial period after the launch or an immediate demonstration of its functions. Instead, we will base on the long-term strategy to ensure its successful start and steady operation. We believe that with the accumulation of investors’ experience and their improved level in practice, the functions of stock option will definitely be manifested. We hope that investors, industry institutions and the media can fully understand our prudent considerations in the process of promoting innovation.   Thank you again for your presence. Let us embrace the era of option. Thank you!   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Revises 3 Supporting Rules for Delisting
30 Jan 2015
It is learnt from the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) lately that to implement new delisting regulations in the “Stock Listing Rules” (the “Listing Rules” for short), the SSE has revised and improved three supporting rules for delisting, which are to be issued and put into effect today. The three supporting rules revised this time include the “SSE Measures on Re-listing of Delisted Companies (Revised in 2015)” (the “Measures” for short), the “SSE Detailed Rules on Business in Delisting Arrangement Period (Revised in 2015)” (the “Detailed Rules” for short), and the “SSE Administrative Measures on Stock Trading on Risk Alert Board (Revised in 2015)” (the “Administrative Measures” for short). Previously, the SSE revised the “Listing Rules” in accordance with the “Opinions on Reform, Improvement and Implementation of the Delisting System of Listed Companies” released by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), and released it on October 17, 2014.   Differentiated re-listing application procedures for different delisting situations   An official of the SSE introduces that the new “Listing Rules” has perfected the voluntary delisting system for listed companies and added the system of compulsory delisting for listed companies with severe illegal acts. At present, delisting can be categorized into voluntary delisting, compulsory delisting triggered by market trading indicators, compulsory delisting caused by serious violations, and other compulsory delisting situations, and there are significant differences for different delisting situations in intention of delisting, degree of violation, degree of trouble for a company, extent of harm, and other aspects. Considering factors such as respecting and encouraging listed companies to implement voluntary delisting on the basis of their own reasonable demands and intentions and further increasing costs for serious violations, the “Measures” revised by the SSE has made differentiated arrangements in application procedures and documents for re-listing of delisted companies with different delisting situations, which are mainly included in the following three aspects:   First, different intervals are given for re-listing applications according to different delisting situations. A voluntarily-delisted company may submit an application for re-listing at any time after delisting of their stocks; a compulsorily-delisted company caused by market trading indicators shall have an interval of three months before applying for re-listing; a company compulsorily delisted for reasons other than serious violations and market trading indicators shall have an interval of twelve months before applying for re-listing; a company with compulsory delisting for serious violations shall have an interval of an entire fiscal year before applying for re-listing.   Second, a strict prerequisite has been set up for the re-listing applications of delisted companies with serious violations. The “Measures” stipulates that if a delisted company with serious violations fails to simultaneously meet an array of conditions including thoroughly rectifying the serious violations, replacing liable personnel, and making proper arrangements for bearing the compensation for relevant civil liabilities, the SSE shall not accept its re-listing application.   Third, for the re-listing applications of voluntarily-delisted companies and with regard to the listing resumption for delisted companies with wrongly-sentenced serious violations, some simplifications and differentiated arrangements have been made in application documents, review procedure, trading arrangements after re-listing, and other aspects in the “Measures”.   “Preferential Treatment” for re-listing applications of voluntarily-delisted companies   In order to encourage voluntary delisting of listed companies, respect corporate autonomy, and form the flexible market-oriented flow mechanism, the SSE has made several “preferential” measures for re-listing applications of voluntarily-delisted companies, which are mainly reflected in the three aspects of interval for application, application documents, and review procedure. First, with regard to the application interval, a voluntarily-delisted company may submit an application for re-listing at any time after delisting; second, in terms of the application documents, a voluntarily-delisted company may apply to the SSE for exemption from providing relevant application documents that the company thinks are inapplicable; third, regarding the review procedure, the SSE has halved the time for making a decision on whether to approve re-listing or not from the conventional 60 trading days to 30 trading days.   Adding prerequisites for re-listing of delisted companies with serious violations   The official of the SSE also says that the compulsory delisting of listed companies with serious violations features highlighted abruptness, harmful illegal behaviors, and high severity, which will seriously harm the interests of investors and the market development. In order to increase costs for serious violations of listed companies, maintain a sound market environment, and protect legitimate rights and interests of investors, the SSE has set up the prerequisites for accepting re-listing applications of delisted companies with serious violations.   The most important part of the above-mentioned prerequisites is that a delisted company with serious violations has thoroughly corrected the violations. In order to make the standards of the prerequisites clearer, more objective, and more operable in practice, the “Measures” has stipulated four specific conditions for the “thorough correction” as follow:   First, a delisted company with serious violations has thoroughly rectified the serious violations. For example, the company has released a supplementation or modification announcement on the matters related to fraud issuance and serious violations in information disclosure; the company has completed the responsibility investigation for the fraud issuance and the serious violations in information disclosure; and the company-related risks possibly caused by the fraud issuance and the serious violations in information disclosure have been eliminated;   Second, the company has replaced the persons liable for the violations of the fraud issuance and the serious violations in information disclosure, including the persons concerned convicted by the people's courts and the persons concerned with administrative penalties issued by the CSRC;   Third, the company has made proper arrangements for bearing the compensation for relevant civil liabilities. For example, the judgment of the people's courts related to the compensation-related matters has been implemented; with regard to the cases of reaching the settlement without any judgment, the implementation of the settlement agreement has been completed;   Fourth, the sponsor institution and lawyer hired by the company for relisting have checked and verified the cases related to the above-mentioned three conditions, and have issued the special inspection opinions clearly affirming that the company has fully complied with the above-mentioned three conditions.   Setting up self-deciding procedure about whether to enter delisting arrangement period for trading   For a delisted company in the process of major asset reorganization, the “Detailed Rules” stipulates that a company may hold a shareholders’ meeting to decide whether to end the major asset reorganization and enter the delisting arrangement period for trading. According to sources, this stipulation has mainly considered the significant impact of the major asset reorganization on the listed company. If the company’s shares enter the delisting arrangement period for trading, significant volatility in share trading is likely to occur, which is neither conducive to the market stability nor protecting the interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors. Therefore, it is necessary to respect the will of the company and its shareholders and allow them to decide whether to enter the delisting arrangement period by performing necessary decision-making procedures.   As for the specific arrangements, the listed company’s directorate should submit one of the following two proposals to the shareholders’ meeting for discussion: the first proposal is that shares in the company enter the delisting arrangement period and major asset reorganization is terminated; and the second is that shares in the company do not enter the delisting arrangement period and major asset reorganization is continuously propelled. The relevant proposals should be approved by no less than 2/3 of all shareholders’ voting rights present at the meeting. The company should make relevant arrangements according to different voting results of the shareholders’ meeting, either not entering the delisting arrangement period for trading and directly terminating listing or entering the delisting arrangement period for trading. Besides, for the special situation of a listed company being in the process of bankruptcy and reorganization, the company’s shares may not enter the delisting arrangement period for trading if the relevant court or the relevant bankruptcy administrator identifies that there will be a conflict between the company’s shares entering the delisting arrangement period for trading and the implementation of the bankruptcy procedure or the company’s reorganization plan approved by the court.   Improving investor suitability arrangement in delisting arrangement period for trading   One of the important purposes of setting up delisting arrangement period is to further release investment risks. Stocks entering the delisting arrangement period for trading will be delisted after the stipulated trading period expires. As there are huge risks for investment in stocks in delisting arrangement period, investors need high awareness of investment risks and high risk tolerance capacities. Thus, to fully protect the interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors, the SSE has added the stipulation on investor suitability for trading stocks in delisting arrangement period in the “Administrative Measures”. The “Administrative Measures” stipulates that any individual investor who applies for trading shares in delisting arrangement period shall have 2 years of experience in stock trading or above and hold the assets of RMB0.5 million or above (excluding securities and capital financed through margin trading and securities lending) in the securities accounts and capital accounts opened in his/her own name. Individual investors not meeting the above stipulation can only sell shares held by them in delisting arrangement periods but not buy them.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Releasing SSE Supporting Rules on Delisting
30 Jan 2015
All Market Participants,   To further carry out the delisting system of listed companies and improve the delisting system reform, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has revised three supporting rules for delisting including the “SSE Measures on Re-listing of Delisted Companies”, the “SSE Detailed Rules on Business in Delisting Arrangement Period”, and the “SSE Provisional Regulations on Stock Trading on Risk Alert Board” in accordance with the “Opinions on Reform, Improvement and Implementation of the Delisting System of Listed Companies” of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and the “SSE Stock Listing Rules (Revised in 2014)”. Besides, the SSE has incorporated into the three supporting rules the contents of its three previously-released notices on separate businesses, including the “Notice of Issues of Cementing Management of Stock Trading on Risk Alert Board”, the “Notice of Revising, Abolishing Relevant Business Rules of SSE Delisted Share Transfer System”, and the “Notice of Issues of Listed Companies’ Shares Entering Delisting Arrangement Period for Trading”.   The above-mentioned three supporting rules for delisting have been discussed and approved by the SSE’s Board of Governors and got approval from the CSRC. The SSE hereby releases these new rules, which will take effect on the release date, and the former three supporting rules for delisting and the above-mentioned three notices on separate businesses will be abolished at the same time.   Shanghai Stock Exchange January 30, 2015

Rationalize Self-regulatory Rules, Develop Open System of Business Rules
29 Jan 2015
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently completed the work of thorough rationalization and assessment of the business rules for 2014, and issued the announcement today to abolish the 8th batch of business rules, including 29 rules in total. After the rationalization, there are now a total of 196 business rules in force on the SSE, forming a complete rule system covering the securities and derivatives businesses and oriented toward all kinds of market players.   Establishing the long-term mechanism of rationalizing and as sessing rules and regularly carrying out rationalization and assessment of the rules is one of the SSE’s important measures to promote rule by law and regulatory transformation. To facilitate accurate understanding and application for market participants, the SSE has thoroughly rationalized year by year the existing business rules in force that are universally binding and persistently effective, and assessed, supervised, and inspected the formulation and implementation of the business rules, so as to improve the effect of implementing the business rules. So far, the regular rationalization has been carried out for 8 times, with a total of 279 business rules abolished.   On the basis of continuously rationalizing and publishing the business rules system featuring completeness and clear levels, in order to implement the concept of open regulation, the SSE has also continued to regularly rationalize other normative documents in addition to the business rules. A total of 163 normative documents for business guidance and procedures have been sorted out for the year of 2014, and have been published in the section of “Business Guidance and Procedures” on the SSE website.   Since 2014, the SSE has been in the face of two new situations in the construction of the business rules. First, significant innovative projects of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect and stock options have been achieved successively, and the structure of the business rules system is developing toward the breakthroughs in the direction of openness and integration; second, with the implementation of the principle of rule by law and the all-around advancement of the regulatory transformation, the construction of the self-regulatory rules is being pushed forward in accordance with higher and stricter targets. In such a context, besides making effective efforts in the regular work in making, revising, and abolishing business rules, the SSE has focused on the following two areas of construction and disclosure of the rules:   First, the SSE has set up the system of “compatible and inclusive” rules, achieved the adaptation of the rules between the domestic market and the overseas connected markets, the securities spot market and the stock option market, and formed the open rule system basically in line with the development and innovation of the SSE; second, the SSE has implemented the construction of the “market-friendly” system, and earnestly solicited opinions from the market and fully absorbed the wisdom of the industries when making and revising the business rules with significant impacts on the market development, innovation and regulation. Besides, it has strengthened the disclosure of the regulatory standards as well as the regulatory experience and practices, and refined the relatively solid experience and practices in actual regulation into business rules and disclosed them to the market.   The SSE said that building and improving the business rules system and effectively advancing management of the SSE and the market by law is a long-term and fundamental task of importance. Fully relying on the good effect of the long-term mechanism formed over years in rationalizing and assessing the business rules, the SSE will, on the basis of the fundamental principles of standardizing market operation, promoting market development, advancing market innovation and protecting investors’ rights and interests, timely formulate, revise and rationalize the business rules, and make audacious exploration and innovation to continuously build the business rules system adaptable to the market’s growth and innovation.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Appraisal Result of “2014 Outstanding Institutions, Individuals on SSE Bond Market” Revealed
27 Jan 2015
The bond market of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) had a steady development in 2014. It gained a greater market size with 2,603 bonds listed and RMB2.28 trillion bonds under custody at the end of the year, a 54% and 32% year-on-year growth respectively; the total bond trading volume in 2014 exceeded RMB86 trillion, a 39% year-on-year growth; meanwhile, the SSE released a series of innovative products including credit-asset-backed securities, securities companies’ short-term bonds, exchangeable bonds, and private placement bonds for mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations. In addition, an array of new businesses such as agreed repo of bonds will be launched, and market innovation is on a fast track.   To encourage and reward excellent institutions and individuals, the SSE sets up 6 awards for institutions including “Outstanding Bond Dealer”, “Outstanding Underwriter of Corporate Bonds”, “Outstanding Sponsor for Listing of Enterprise Bonds”, “Outstanding Market-maker for Treasury Bonds”, “Outstanding Dealer for Treasury Bonds’ Pre-issuance” and “Outstanding Innovative Institution for Bond Business”, and 3 awards for individuals including “Outstanding Bond Trader”, “Outstanding Bond Underwriting Individual” and “Outstanding Bond Business Individual” on the SSE bond market in 2014 according to bond underwriting and trading rankings of the institutions, as well as their contributions to market innovation in 2014.   The winners are:   For Institutions: 1. “Outstanding Bond Dealer”: Bank of Communications Co., Ltd. Agricultural Bank of China Co., Ltd. Pingan Asset Management Co., Ltd. Taikang Asset Management Co., Ltd. CITIC Securities Co., Ltd. Guotai Junan Securities Co., Ltd. Rongtong Fund Management Co., Ltd. Fullgoal Fund Management Co., Ltd.   2. “Outstanding Underwriter of Corporate Bonds” CITIC Securities Co., Ltd. China International Capital Corporation Limited (CICC)   3. “Outstanding Sponsor for Listing of Enterprise Bonds” Guosen Securities Co., Ltd. GF Securities Co., Ltd.   4. “Outstanding Market-maker for Treasury Bonds” CITIC Securities Co., Ltd. China International Capital Corporation Limited (CICC)   5. “Outstanding Dealer for Treasury Bonds’ Pre-issuance” Bank of Communications Co., Ltd. Guotai Junan Securities Co., Ltd.   6. “Outstanding Innovative Institution for Bond Business” Guotai Junan Securities Co., Ltd. China Development Bank Co., Ltd.   For Individuals: 1. “Outstanding Bond Underwriting Individual” (9) CITIC Securities Co., Ltd.: Wu Yu, Zhang Tianyu Guotai Junan Securities Co., Ltd.: Zhao Qing, Wu Dike GF Securities Co., Ltd.: Li Yucheng, Wang Renhui Guosen Securities Co., Ltd.: Li Sicong, Yu Hao China International Capital Corporation Limited (CICC): Li Binnan   2. “Outstanding Bond Business Individual” (2) China Development Bank Co., Ltd.: Liu Fan, Ma Jianxiao   3. “Outstanding Bond Trader” (17) Bank of Communications Co., Ltd.: Liu Xuan, Yuan Chuyang Agricultural Bank of China Co., Ltd.: Zhan Chao, Huang Xuan Pingan Asset Management Co., Ltd.: Lu Wenye, Jiang Wenwen Taikang Asset Management Co., Ltd.: Zhou Xiaofang, Li Lan CITIC Securities Co., Ltd.: Zhang Huizi, Kuang Junyu Guotai Junan Securities Co., Ltd.: Ye Zi’ang, Wu Shuman Fullgoal Fund Management Co., Ltd.: Yu Xiaobin, Li Xinmeng Rongtong Fund Management Co., Ltd.: Wang Jingyi, Ke Yajun China International Capital Corporation Limited (CICC): Li Zi’ang   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE: Accelerating Transformation to Open, Comprehensive Modern Exchange
19 Jan 2015
Studying the requirements of the National Securities and Futures Regulatory Conference and arranging the “1+6” core work for 2015   Seizing the opportunity of major reform and innovation to accelerate the transformation of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) to a modern exchange characterized by its openness, comprehensiveness, market-participant status, service, and responsibility.   In 2015, the good momentum of the accelerated breakthrough in reform and innovation should be maintained continuously, and the “1+6” core work should be propelled, that is, propelling the six tasks in terms of stock option, registration system reform, the board of strategic emerging industries, integration of technological forces, mechanism innovation of the bond market, and the free trade zone platform apart from ensuring safe operation.   On January 17, the Party Committee and the President’s Office of the SSE held the SSE leadership team’s learning conference to pass on the requirements of the 2015 National Securities and Futures Regulatory Conference and study the speech made by Chairman Xiao Gang of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) at the conference. The SSE released that it would accelerate the transformation to an open and comprehensive modern exchange in 2015.   Seizing the opportunity to realize new breakthrough in development   From 2014 till now, the launch of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect and the approval of stock option have not only demonstrated the SSE’s achievements in its reform, innovation, and development but also greatly roused the confidence and fighting will of all staff of the SSE. Through study and discussion, the SSE believed that the new normal of economic development, the release of reform dividends, and the innovation in macro-economic regulation and control methods have all provided new room and impetus for the further reform, innovation, and development of the SSE market and raised an array of new topics. A general judgment is that boasting its conditions, fundamentals, and opportunities, the SSE will possibly make new breakthrough in its development strategy in 2015, but it should fully recognize the complexity and arduousness of the reform, innovation, and development work and never underestimate difficulties in the development. Under the situation, the SSE’s reform, innovation, and development must have an “anchoring force”, that is, it should carry out all work items by firmly centering on enhancing the capital market’s capacity of serving the real economy, and think and do more from the perspective of serving the real economy; furthermore, it must attach importance to “quality”, namely, it should comprehensively grasp and fully recognize the opportunities and difficulties in the reform, innovation, and development work, adopt a long-term perspective and have a down-to-earth attitude, and be brave in making breakthrough and be willing to do the “blue-collar” work.   Accelerating the transformation to a modern exchange   In response to the speech topic of Chairman Xiao Gang, “Focusing on Regulatory Transformation and Enhancing Regulatory Efficiency”, the SSE put forward that in 2015, it would take the opportunity of major reform and innovation to speed up the transformation to a modern exchange characterized by its openness, comprehensiveness, market-participant status, service, and responsibility:   First, it would build an open exchange with Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect as the starting point. Taking this opportunity, the SSE would steadfastly promote opening-up, facilitate reform and development with opening-up, and keep elevating the international influence of the SSE market.   Second, it would move towards a comprehensive exchange with stock option as the symbol. The launch of stock option will, for the first time, realize the full coverage of product lines of domestic stock exchanges in the spot market and derivatives markets. The SSE would keep expanding its business lines, enrich its product lines, and integrate its value chains, so as to build itself into a comprehensive exchange.   Third, it would return to its original role as a market participant by taking the opportunity of the registration system reform. With the promotion of the registration system reform of stock issuance, the exchange’s role as a market participant would be more prominent, and its responsibility as a market participant would be clearer. Therefore, the SSE would fulfill its duties and enhance its own capacity, so as to truly bring off its functions as a market participant.   Fourth, it would construct a service-featured exchange by focusing on elevating its service capacity. According to the requirement of serving the real economy, the SSE would, in light of all tasks for the market construction, optimize the market service, elevate the service level, deepen the service, and improve investor’s experience, so as to gain acknowledgement from the market with its high-quality service.   Fifth, it would build a responsibility-oriented exchange with regulatory transformation as the impetus. The SSE would actively propel the regulatory transformation, further change the regulatory concept, mechanism, and method, and urge all market parties to fulfill their functions. Besides, it would reduce market cost, enhance market efficiency, bring off its role in safeguarding the open, fair and just market order, and protecting legitimate rights and interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors, thus promoting the sound development of the capital market, and better assume its responsibility in building an open, fair, and just market.   Fully promoting the “1+6” core work for 2015   In 2015, the SSE will spare no efforts to promote the “1+6” core work, that is, promoting the six tasks in stock option, registration system reform, the board of strategic emerging industries, integration of technological forces, mechanism innovation of the bond market, and the free trade zone platform apart from ensuring safe operation.   First, the SSE will erect the awareness of safe operation, so as to ensure that there will be no accident in the operation of all systems and the operation of business lines in 2015.   Second, the SSE will fully prepare for the launch of the SSE 50 ETF Option, so as to ensure its successful launch and sound operation. Besides, the SSE will actively optimize the operation mechanism for the SSE 50 ETF Option and study to develop supporting products for it.   Third, the SSE will cooperate with the CSRC to complete all preparatory tasks for the registration system reform as soon as possible.   Fourth, the SSE will boost the construction of the board of strategic emerging industries. Specifically, it will improve the scheme for the board and boost its construction, in a bid to strengthen the SSE’s capacity of serving the industry development and the real economy.   Fifth, the SSE will integrate technological forces and enhance its technological competitiveness, so as to provide stronger and more reliable technological support for the further reform and innovation work of its business lines.   Sixth, the SSE will, in accordance with the work arrangements of the CSRC, integrate resources in the bond market, drive the building of the inter-institution bond market, and build a brand-new bond market platform.   Seventh, the SSE will realize the formal operation of the free trade zone platform. Specifically, the SSE will establish an operation agency for the trading platform, formulate the operational program and the system of rules for the trading platform, select and refine key products and business lines, develop and build a technological system for the platform, and open the first batch of business lines including the cross-border private placement financing service for enterprises in the free trade zone.   The SSE Party Committee also required that the SSE should keep cementing the construction of the Party Committee, conduct the special examination with the theme of “Cementing Internal Control and External Regulation, Curbing Rule-Breaking Operation and Crimes”, and attach importance to the supervision on corruption in key fields. Besides, the SSE should further consolidate the ideological and cultural construction, and strengthen the ideological education and value guidance for all employees.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Upgrades Online Voting System
16 Jan 2015
It is learnt from the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) lately that the SSE has completed optimization and upgrading of the SSE Online Voting System (OVS) for Shareholders’ Meetings of Listed Companies and added a new online voting platform (website: vote.sseinfo.com) after conducting several rounds of online testing together with securities companies. The new OVS will be put into formal use on January 26, 2015, after which investors can still vote online by logging on to trading terminals of securities companies designated by them, or log on to the above-mentioned online voting platform to vote after going through verification of shareholder identities. Besides, the SSE has revised the “SSE Detailed Rules for Online Voting at Shareholders’ Meetings of Listed Companies” (the “Detailed Rules” for short) for the new OVS, and specified relevant matters for online voting after the launch of the new OVS. The new “Detailed Rules” will be implemented on the same day of the initial operation of the new OVS.   According to an official of the SSE, such measures as the OVS optimization, the building of the new online voting platform, and the revision to the “Detailed Rules” are mainly for the following two aspects: first, to implement relevant requirements of the State Council and the China Securities Regulatory Commission on completely adopting online voting for shareholders’ meetings of listed companies as well as counting separately and disclosing small and medium-sized investors’ votes; second, to help investors to exercise their voting right and further provide convenience for them to vote online, thus strengthening protection of legitimate rights and interests of small and medium-sized investors and elevating the exchange’s service level.   According to the official, before the upgrading, investors voted in the OVS of the SSE only through the trading system; shareholders could not see proposal names and voting opinions when they voted, and they voted only according to such abstract numbers as order price, number of shares, and code, which caused inconvenience to voting and led to mistakes. To solve the above-mentioned problems, the following two aspects have been upgraded in the new OVS, which brings great convenience to investors’ voting:   First, a more visualized and user-friendly online voting interface has been provided by referring to webpage mode. It has greatly improved users’ experience, offered visualized presentation and visibility of proposal names and investors’ voting opinions for shareholders’ meetings, and made the online voting interface all the more friendly, which helps to encourage investors to involve themselves into shareholders’ meetings. It is learnt that some details in the new OVS further show humanized designs. For example, the “Select All” button enables shareholders to vote for all proposals or a particular proposal group through “One Click”, and error reminds and notes are also provided when voting.   Second, a voting channel has been added. Apart from the previous single trading-system-based voting platform, an online voting platform has been added. Investors thus can vote through the voting platform of the trading system by logging on to trading terminals of securities companies designated by them, or vote after logging on to the online voting platform and passing the identity verification.   The official adds that the revised “Detailed Rules” has seen an array of adjustments to handling procedures, information disclosure, voting process, and other items in response to the new OVS, and relevant articles have been supplemented and improved in accordance with relevant requirements of latest policies and regulations as well as actual business demands. The revision mainly involves the following aspects: first, relevant business procedures have been adjusted in response to the new OVS, including operation standards for listed companies to formulate a notice of shareholders’ meeting and relevant supplementation announcement, and specific means for shareholders to vote through the new OVS; second, to implement the requirement of completely adopting online voting for shareholders’ meetings, listed companies are required, according to relevant regulation, to provide shareholders with an online voting way when holding shareholders’ meetings and do well the organization and preparation work for online voting; third, regulations on online voting issues related to Shanghai Stock Connect, preferred stock, integrated securities account, and others have been made to support the development of innovative business; fourth, relevant articles on online voting issues, including cumulative voting, voting avoidance, mutually-exclusive proposals, and others, have been supplemented and improved according to the business practices of online voting.   It is learnt that it took over 6 months for the SSE to upgrade and optimize the OVS, as it involved many aspects and huge workload. Through the upgrading, the parts that could be finally presented to investors are simply the improved interface and the added voting channel. However, online voting is of great importance, involving every investor, designated securities company, and listed company. Particularly, the upgrading decides whether small and medium-sized investors can conveniently exercise their voting right. Meanwhile, the accuracy and safety of online voting’s data transmission as well as the emergency disposal of possible abnormalities in the operation of the new OVS should be considered. Therefore, to ensure the success of the upgrading, the SSE and relevant parties have devoted a great amount of manpower and materials, and conducted several rounds of online testing for the new OVS. In response to the upgrading, securities companies have also fully upgraded over-the-counter systems and trading terminals for investor to ensure smooth voting channels after the launch of the new OVS.  

Explanations on Revision to “SSE Detailed Rules for Online Voting at Shareholders’ Meetings of Listed Companies”
15 Jan 2015
Shareholders’ meetings of listed companies providing online voting modes for shareholders to exercise their voting right is of great significance in facilitating voting of shareholders, making them more active in participating in shareholders’ meetings, protecting legitimate rights and interests of small and medium-sized investors, promoting standardized operation of listed companies, and other aspects. The existing “Detailed Rules of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) for Online Voting at Shareholders’ Meetings of Listed Companies” (the “Detailed Rules” for short) issued in 2004 has provided basis of rules and operation standards for shareholders of listed companies to vote online through the SSE Online Voting System (OVS) for Shareholders’ Meetings of Listed Companies, and ensured orderly operation of the online voting business. According to preliminary statistics, only in the whole year of 2014, 1,609 shareholders’ meetings held by a total of 785 listed companies adopted the OVS of the SSE to provide their shareholders with online voting modes.   The “Opinions on Further Strengthening the Protection of Small and Medium-sized Investors’ Legitimate Rights and Interests in the Capital Market” (the “Opinions” for short) issued by the General Office of the State Council in 2013 proposed to guide complete adoption of online voting for shareholders’ meetings of listed companies and set up a mechanism of counting separately and disclosing small and medium-sized investors’ votes. After that, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) revised the “Rules on Shareholders’ Meetings of Listed Companies” (the “Meeting Rules” for short) in 2014, further confirming the above-mentioned two requirements stipulated in the “Opinions”. In order to implement the above-mentioned new requirements and further help investors to vote online and exercise their voting right, the SSE has worked with its member units to optimize and adjust the original OVS, and add a new online voting platform (website: vote.sseinfo.com). The new OVS will be put into formal use on January 26, 2015.   Against this background, the SSE has revised the “Detailed Rules”, made specific provisions on handling procedures, information disclosure, voting process and other matters related to online voting after the new OVS is put into use, and improved the related articles according to actual business demands of online voting, such as helping investors to exercise their voting right. Brief explanations for the revision are hereby given as follows:   I. Implementing the requirements for complete adoption of online voting as well as counting separately small and medium-sized investors’ votes, strengthening protection of investors’ rights and interests To implement the “Opinions” and the requirements of the CSRC for thorough adoption of online voting as well as counting separately small and medium-sized investors’ votes for shareholders’ meetings of listed companies, Article 4 of the new “Detailed Rules” clearly stipulates that when convening a shareholders’ meeting, a listed company should provide shareholders with online voting modes according to relevant regulation, fulfill the obligation of releasing notices and announcements related to shareholders’ meetings, and do well the organization and preparation work for online voting of shareholders’ meetings. Paragraph 2 of Article 33 stipulates that when shareholders’ meetings of listed companies deliberate on significant issues having impact on interests of small and medium-sized investors, votes of small and medium-sized investors should be counted separately and disclosed in announcements on resolutions at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, to improve the efficiency and accuracy of listed companies in separate statistics of the attendance and votes of small and medium-sized investors, Article 28 of the new “Detailed Rules” stipulates that SSE Infonet Ltd. (SSE Infonet) could provide appropriate services in classified statistics as entrusted by listed companies.   II. Adjusting business processes in response to the new OVS, facilitating voting of shareholders The new OVS put into use this time solves the problem that proposal names and voting opinions cannot be intuitively presented in the original OVS, making the voting interface more friendly and visualized and facilitating correct voting of investors; besides, a new online voting platform has been added for the rapid development of the Internet, in addition to the single trading-system-based online voting channel in the past. To support the new OVS, relevant business processes have been accordingly optimized and adjusted in the new “Detailed Rules”.   1. New requirements for notification of and preparation for online voting have been specified for the new OVS. In order to improve efficiency and accuracy of data transmission of online voting as well as facilitate data collection of voting information, the new OVS gives new requirements for formulation of temporary announcements for shareholders’ meetings. To this end, Article 5 of the new “Detailed Rules” stipulates that listed companies providing shareholders with online voting modes should formulate relevant announcements for shareholders’ meetings by using the announcement formulation software of the SSE in accordance with the SSE Format Instructions on Temporary Announcements, and make the disclosure according to the regulations. The “relevant announcements for shareholders’ meetings” in the above article include announcements on notification of shareholders’ meetings stipulated respectively in Article 9 and Article 10, and supplementation announcements for the cases such as “postponement or cancellation of shareholders’ meeting, adding temporary proposals, cancelling proposals, as well as supplementation and correction of online voting information”.   Furthermore, to guarantee accuracy of online voting data, Article 12 and Article 14 of the new “Detailed Rules” respectively specify checking responsibilities of listed companies: first, when submitting and disclosing announcements such as the notice on convening the shareholders’ meeting, a listed company should check, confirm, and guarantee accuracy and completeness of online voting data submitted by it; second, on the trading day prior to the start date of voting for the shareholders’ meeting, a listed company should log on to the SSE information service platform for listed companies to check again accuracy and completeness of online voting data.   2. Methods and procedures for investors to vote in the new OVS have been stipulated. Article 3 of the new “Detailed Rules” stipulates clearly that the online voting system of the SSE includes the two voting platforms on the trading system and the Internet. Article 17 and Article 18 of the new “Detailed Rules” respectively stipulate methods for shareholders to vote online on the above-mentioned two voting platforms: first, a shareholder voting on the voting platform of the SSE trading system can log on to trading terminal of the designated securities company via the shareholder’s account to vote online, with the voting time being the SSE’s trading hours on the very day of the shareholders’ meeting; second, a shareholder voting on the SSE online voting platform can log on to the platform to vote online after completing verification of the shareholder’s identity, with the voting time from 09:15 to 15:00 on the very day of the shareholders’ meeting.   III. Setting rules for the online voting business, supporting the development of innovative business lines In recent years, innovative business lines related to Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, preferred shares, integrated securities account, and others have continued to emerge, and it is necessary for the “Detailed Rules” to standardize matters related to shareholders voting online to exercise their voting right. In this revision, the new “Detailed Rules” clearly makes stipulations on online voting matters related to the above-mentioned innovative business lines, mainly in the following three aspects:   1. Online voting matters involving the business of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect First, considering that Hong Kong Securities Clearing Co., Ltd. (HKSCC), the nominal holder of the stocks related to Shanghai Stock Connect, needs to solicit voting opinions of actual holders, Article 15 of the new “Detailed Rules” makes it clear that HKSCC can entrust SSE Infonet with soliciting voting opinions of actual holders on matters planned to be discussed at shareholders’ meetings through the solicitation system of voting opinions for shareholders’ meetings.   Second, considering that HKSCC is of some particularity in online voting system, voting mode, and other aspects, Article 25 and Article 8 of the new “Detailed Rules” stipulate that the SSE should make separate rules for specific matters of voting operation for HKSCC, and HKSCC may sign a service agreement with SSE Infonet appointed by the SSE to entrust it with providing relevant services for online voting of shareholders’ meetings.   2. Online voting matters involving preferred shares With regard to the online voting matters involving preferred shares, Article 9, Article 19, and Article 30 of the new “Detailed Rules” stipulate respectively as follows: first, in the process of issuing the notice on convening the shareholders’ meeting, the “categories of participating shareholders” should be specified with the categories based on A share and preferred share, etc., and if a listed company issues several kinds of preferred shares, different kinds of preferred shares should be distinguished; second, in the process of voting, shareholders of A share and preferred shares, etc. should vote separately according to their kinds of shareholders; third, in the process of votes counting, SSE Infonet may provide the service of categorized votes counting for holders of ordinary shares and preferred shares according to entrustment of listed companies.   3. Online voting matters involving the background of integrated securities account In the context of the realization of integrated securities account, one shareholder may hold more than one securities sub-account, and relevant rules should be made for them to participate in online voting. In this revision, the new “Detailed Rules” has made relevant arrangements as follows:   First, rules have been made for the matters such as number of shares, voting, and votes counting of the shareholders holding more than one sub-account. Article 19 and Article 22 of the new “Detailed Rules” stipulate: for a shareholder holding more than one sub-account, the number of the voting rights that can be exercised is the sum of the ordinary shares in the same category and the preferred shares of the same kind held in all the shareholder sub-accounts under the shareholder’s name, and the shareholder could participate in online voting via any one of his or her sub-accounts. After the voting, it is regarded that the same kind of shares owned by the shareholder has cast the votes of the same opinion. For the same kind of shares, if a shareholder votes repeatedly through several shareholder sub-accounts, the first effective voting result will prevail.   Second, the rule for determining the same shareholder with more than one sub-account has been set. Article 20 of the new “Detailed Rules” stipulates in this regard that the determination should be based on the information of the integrated securities account, the name of the shareholder, the number of valid credential, and other information recorded on the record date.   IV. Improving relevant business rules according to the practice of online voting In addition to the above revisions to the rules related to the new systems, new policies, and new business lines, on the basis of the practice in the online voting business, the SSE has supplemented and improved the relevant rules in the new “Detailed Rules”, mainly including the following aspects:   1. Rules for cumulative voting are newly added. First, Article 11 of the new “Detailed Rules” stipulates the rule for the listing of proposal groups, that is, a listed company adopting the cumulative voting system in electing directors and supervisors should separately list the proposal groups respectively for the election for candidates of directors, independent directors, and supervisors in the announcement on the notification of convening the shareholders’ meeting. 　　Second, Article 22 of the new “Detailed Rules” specifies the rule for cumulative voting, stipulating that the shareholders should vote within the limit of the number of votes for each proposal group. If a shareholder casts votes more than the number of his or her own votes or votes for candidates more than the specific number in the competitive election, the votes cast for the proposal should be considered as invalid.   2. Rules for votes counting are set in the cases such as voting avoidance, mutually-exclusive proposals, and holders of preferred shares participating in voting. Article 26 of the new “Detailed Rules” stipulates that in the cases such as “The shareholders who should avoid voting or have pledged to give up the voting right take part in online voting,” “different proposals for the same matter at the same shareholders’ meeting,” and “Holders of preferred shares participate in online voting,” SSE Infonet should provide a listed company with all voting records for the related proposals, and the listed company should count voting results of the shareholders’ meeting in accordance with relevant regulations, the articles of association, and the votes counting rules disclosed in the relevant announcement for the shareholders’ meeting.   3. It is confirmed that listed companies and their lawyers should be responsible for final results of votes counting. According to the principle of duty fulfillment, Article 31 of the new “Detailed Rules” stipulates that listed companies and their lawyers should confirm compliance of voting data, and eventually form voting results for shareholders’ meetings; those disagreeing with voting data should submit dissents to the SSE and SSE Infonet in a timely manner.

Notice of Amending “Implementation Guide to HKSCC’s Participation in Online Voting of Listed Companies Involved in Shanghai Stock Connect”
15 Jan 2015
All market participants,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has amended the “Implementation Guide to Participation of Hong Kong Securities Clearing Company Ltd. (HKSCC) in Online Voting of Listed Companies Involved in Shanghai Stock Connect” (the “Implementation Guide” for short) in accordance with the “SSE Stock Listing Rules” and the newly released “SSE Detailed Rules for Online Voting at Shareholders’ Meetings of Listed Companies (Amended in 2015)”. The SSE hereby releases the amended “Implementation Guide”, which will take effect on January 26, 2015, and the old one will be abolished at the same time.   Shanghai Stock Exchange January 15, 2015

Notice of Launching New Online Voting System and Releasing “Detailed Rules for Online Voting at Shareholders’ Meetings of Listed Companies (Revised in 2015)”
15 Jan 2015
All market participants,   To implement the requirement of the China Securities Regulatory Commission for complete adoption of online voting at shareholders’ meetings of listed companies and further facilitate investors’ voting, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and its member units have optimized and adjusted the online voting system (OVS) of shareholders’ meetings and added a new online voting platform (website: vote.sseinfo.com). The new OVS will be put into formal use on January 26, 2015, after which investors can still log on to trading terminals of securities companies designated by them for online voting, or log on to the SSE’s newly added online voting platform to vote online after going through verification of shareholder identities.   Based on the aforementioned arrangements, the SSE has revised the “SSE Detailed Rules for Online Voting at Shareholders’ Meetings of Listed Companies” (the “Detailed Rules” for short), making specific provisions on such matters as handling procedures, information disclosure, and voting process of online voting after the new OVS is put into use. The new “Detailed Rules” is hereby released, and shall come into effect on January 26, 2015, with the original “Detailed Rules” repealed simultaneously.   In order to ensure the steady switch between the new OVS and the original one, and the smooth implementation of the new “Detailed Rules”, arrangements for related matters are hereby notified as follows:   I. Arrangements during the parallel operation of the new and original online voting systems.   (1) To ensure a smooth switch, a 3-week parallel operation period is set from January 26 to February 13, 2015. In the period, if an investor’s designated securities company fails to complete upgrading of the OVS timely, the securities company should continue to provide the investor with the online voting service in the form (the original form for short) stipulated in the original “Detailed Rules”; the investor can still submit an instruction of online voting in the original form through the original online voting system of the SSE. If the securities company has completed the system upgrading, the investor can submit an instruction of online voting in the form stipulated in the new “Detailed Rules”.   (2) Prior to the implementation of the new “Detailed Rules”, a listed company, which has released a notice of holding a shareholders’ meeting and chosen the OVS of the SSE as the platform for online voting, should timely disclose a supplementation announcement for its shareholders’ meeting according to the following requirements:   1. A listed company planning to hold a shareholders’ meeting within the parallel operation period should formulate and disclose a supplementation announcement for the shareholders’ meeting in accordance with the new “Detailed Rules” within a time span that is after the beginning of the parallel operation period and before two trading days prior to the date of the shareholders’ meeting. In addition to the disclosure of the contents stipulated in the “SSE No. 94 Format Instruction on Temporary Announcements of Listed Companies: Announcement on Correction and Supplementation of Shareholders’ Meeting of Listed Company”, the supplementation announcement should introduce voting operation procedures of the original OVS, and especially remind investors that they can inquire securities companies designated by them of whether the upgrading of the OVS has been completed and whether instructions of online voting can be submitted in the form stipulated in the new “Detailed Rules”.   2. A listed company planning to hold a shareholders’ meeting after the end of the parallel operation period should formulate and disclose a supplementation announcement for the shareholders’ meeting in accordance with the new “Detailed Rules” before two trading days prior to the end date of the parallel operation period, and remind investors to pay full attention to changes in online voting modes.   (3) The parallel operation period will end on February 14, 2015, after which the use of the original OVS will be halted, and investors can submit instructions of online voting via the new OVS.   II. Relevant requirements after the launch of the new OVS (1) A listed company should, in accordance with the new “Detailed Rules” and this notice, timely formulate and disclose relevant announcements for the shareholders’ meeting, organize and prepare for online voting, and ensure the accuracy and completeness of the submitted information about online voting.   (2) A securities company should, in accordance with the new “Detailed Rules” and this notice, make technological preparations and inform and remind investors in time, ensure the smooth, safe, and efficient operation of the voting platform of the SSE’s trading system, and facilitate the participation of investors in the online voting.   (3) To correctly exercise their voting right, investors should pay full attention to new changes in the OVS, and carefully read announcements about shareholders’ meetings of listed companies to learn about voting procedures and related requirements of the new OVS. In case of any question, investors can consult listed companies or securities companies designated by them immediately.   In addition, market participants can consult through the hotline if they encounter any technical or business-related issues when using the new OVS. Contact for Technical Consultation: Wang Youjie, Tel: 400-900-3600; Contact for Business Consultation: Zhao Zhigang, Tel: 021-68815375.   　　 Shanghai Stock Exchange January 15, 2015

Notice of Revising and Adjusting Some Format Instructions on Temporary Announcements
15 Jan 2015
All listed companies,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has revised and adjusted format instructions on temporary announcements of listed companies regarding shareholders’ meeting and prediction on business performance in accordance with the “SSE Stock Listing Rules” (the “Listing Rules” for short) and the newly released “SSE Detailed Rules for Online Voting at Shareholders’ Meetings of Listed Companies (Amended in 2015)” (the “Detailed Rules” for short). Issues concerning the revisions and adjustments are specified as follows:   I. Format instructions on temporary announcements regarding shareholders’ meeting have been revised and supplemented in accordance with the “Detailed Rules”.   (1) Overall revisions have been applied to format instructions on temporary announcements of listed companies, including the “No. 13 Format Instruction on Temporary Announcements of Listed Companies: Announcement on Noticing of Holding Shareholders’ Meeting by Listed Company”, the “No. 14 Format Instruction on Temporary Announcements of Listed Companies: Announcement on Resolutions on Shareholders’ Meeting of Listed Company”, the “No. 73 Format Instruction on Temporary Announcements of Listed Companies: Announcement on Postponement of Holding Shareholders’ Meeting of Listed Company”, the “No. 75 Format Instruction on Temporary Announcements of Listed Companies: Announcement on Cancellation of Shareholders’ Meeting by Listed Company”, the “No. 76 Format Instruction on Temporary Announcements of Listed Companies: Announcement on Adding Temporary Proposals at Shareholders’ Meeting by Listed Company”, and the “No. 78 Format Instruction on Temporary Announcements of Listed Companies: Announcement on Noticing of Holding Shareholders’ Meeting Independently by Board of Supervisor/Shareholders of Listed Company”;   (2) The SSE has revised the former “No. 74 Format Instruction on Temporary Announcements of Listed Companies: Announcement on Adding Online Voting for Shareholders’ Meeting of Listed Company” into the “No. 74 Format Instruction on Temporary Announcements of Listed Companies: Announcement on Cancelling Proposals on Shareholders’ Meeting of Listed Company”;   (3) The SSE has newly added the “No. 94 Format Instruction on Temporary Announcements of Listed Companies: Announcement on Correction and Supplementation of Shareholders’ Meeting of Listed Company”.   II. Application scopes of some format instructions on temporary announcements regarding prediction on business performance have been adjusted. According to Paragraph 11.3.1 of the “Listing Rules”, the SSE has adjusted application scopes of the “No. 27 Format Instruction on Temporary Announcements of Listed Companies: Announcement on Prediction of Business Performance Increase/Decrease of Listed Company”, the “No. 28 Format Instruction on Temporary Announcements of Listed Companies: Announcement on Predicted Performance Profit of Listed Company”, and the “No. 29 Format Instruction on Temporary Announcements of Listed Companies: Announcement on Predicted Performance Loss of Listed Company”, and specified that whether the last periodical report predicted the performance of this period or not, a listed company should release relevant performance prediction announcement within one month after the end of one fiscal year in accordance with the “Listing Rules”.   The SSE hereby officially releases the above-mentioned new format instructions on temporary announcements, which shall take effect on January 26, 2015, and the former format instructions shall be abolished at the same time. Documents of the new format instructions could be found on the "Business Guides and Procedures" sub-column under the “Law & Regulation” column on the SSE’s website (www.sse.com.cn).   Shanghai Stock Exchange January 15, 2015

SSE: 1st ABS under Filing System Listed
14 Jan 2015
As the first asset backed securities (ABS) listed for transfer after the filing system was newly adopted for the asset securitization business, “Baoxin Leasing Phase I Asset Backed Securities for Asset Backed Special Plan”, with Hengtai Securities as the plan manager, was successfully listed and transferred on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) on January 14, 2015, meaning that the asset securitization market has stepped into a new normal.   Since the release of the filing system of asset securitization on November 19, 2014, it has been highly appraised and gained popularity in the market. The asset securitization market, facing a new round of development opportunities, has developed in an even faster manner. “Baoxin Leasing Phase I Asset Backed Securities” is one of the first products that were successfully issued and completed filing procedures at the end of 2014. It took less than 2 weeks from submitting listing application by Hengtai Securities to the issuance of no-dissent letter by the SSE. Each link, including listing and transfer application, performance of filing procedures, and registration formalities, is of high efficiency and transparency. The issuance scale of the ABS this time reached RMB405 million, with RMB361 million at the preferred level (to be issued to qualified investors) and RMB44 million at the subordinated level (to be purchased by Baoxin Leasing in full amount). The preferred level is further divided into 3 sub-levels: preferred A-1, preferred A-2, and preferred -B. The credit rating for preferred A is AAA, and the interest rates of preferred A-1 and preferred A-2 are 6.15% and 6.20% respectively. The underlying asset of this product is the leasing creditor’s right Baoxin Leasing transferred to the asset backed special plan. The product adopts multiple measures on credit enhancement including preferred/subordinated structure and deficiency payment commitment, with an aim to protect investors’ rights and interests. The successful case of Baoxin Leasing presents an ideal example for the leasing industry to adopt asset securitization as a regular instrument to tap idle assets.   According to a business official of the SSE, the SSE has handled dozens of asset securitization projects after the adoption of the filing system a month before, involving such underlying asset types as commercial property rental, creditor’s right of account receivable, creditor’s right of financial leasing contract, creditor’s right of petty loan, charging right of infrastructure, creditor’s right of entrusted loan, and public transportation fees. So far, the SSE has issued to several ABS projects the no-dissent letters of planning to approve their listing and transfer, and such projects as Baoxin Leasing, Minmetals Development Account Receivable, and Hanhua Creditor’s Right of Petty Loan have successfully launched. In the next step, the SSE will, under the guidance of the regulatory departments, focus on the development of the asset securitization market and carry out work in the following 3 aspects: first, for product, the SSE will cooperate with market entities to jointly promote innovative development of the market according to the requirement of streamlining administration and decentralizing authority, and accelerate the launch of securitization products based on major underlying assets; second, for market organization and construction of supporting systems, the SSE will provide one-stop service for issuance and listing of asset securitization products, and continue to enhance market promotion, cultivation and innovation. Meanwhile, it will coordinate to promote solutions to issues such as laws, accounting, tax, and change of mortgage and pledge that could be involved in asset securitization business. Third, for the liquidity of the secondary market, the SSE will further improve the trading settlement mechanism and expand diversified investors. Currently, it is sparing no efforts to release collateralized agreed repo of bonds to provide diversified repo financing instruments for asset securitization products and other fixed income products.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Modification to Paragraph 3.1.5 of “SSE Trading Rules”
09 Jan 2015
　　Shang Zheng Fa [2015] No. 6 Document  All market participants, With an aim of further developing the fund market and meeting investment and trading demands of investors, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has decided to apply intraday trading (T+0) to cross-border ETFs and cross-border LOFs and modified Paragraph 3.1.5 in the “SSE Trading Rules” into: “3.1.5 Intraday trading shall be applied to the following products: (1) Bonds　　(2) Bond ETFs　　(3) Exchange-traded Money Market Funds　　(4) Gold ETFs　　(5) Cross-border ETFs　　(6) Cross-border LOFs　　(7) Warrants　　(8) Other products permitted by the China Securities Regulatory Commission The cross-border ETFs and cross-border LOFs described in the preceding paragraph. shall be limited to open-ended funds tracking the constituent stocks in the indices or investment underlyings which adopt intraday trading (T+0). B shares shall adopt T+1 mechanism in trading.” The notice shall take effect as of January 19, 2015, and shall prevail if relevant stipulations in the SSE’s other rules differ from those herein. There are currently 4 cross-border ETFs listed in the SSE (please refer to the attachment for the names of these ETFs). Attachment: List of Cross-border ETFs Shanghai Stock Exchange　　 January 9, 2015 Attachment　　List of Cross-border ETFs　　1. Hua’an Global Leader (DAX) ETF (code: 513030, ticker symbol: Germany 30)　　2. Bosera S&P 500 ETF (code: 513500, ticker symbol: S&P 500)　　3. NASDAQ 100 ETF (code: 513100, ticker symbol: NASDAQ ETF)　　4. E Fund Hang Seng China Enterprise ETF (code: 510900, ticker symbol: H-Share ETF)

Notice of Releasing “SSE Rules for Pilot Program of Stock Option Trading”
09 Jan 2015
　　Shang Zheng Fa [2015] No. 7 Document  All market participants, With an aim of standardizing the pilot program of stock option, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the “SSE Rules for Pilot Program of Stock Option Trading” (the “Rules” for short, see attachment for details) in accordance with the “Administrative Measures on Pilot Program of Stock Option Trading” of the China Securities Regulatory Commission and other related regulations. The SSE hereby releases the “Rules” and notifies relevant issues as follows: 1. The “Rules” shall take effect from the date of issuance. Option dealers should complete business and technical preparations in accordance with the regulations as soon as possible. 2. Regulations on the operation that option contract will continue to receive trading submissions during trading suspension and start call auction upon trading resumption (Paragraph 2, Article 75) will be implemented after related technical development and testing are completed, with specific implementation time subject to further notice. 3. Regulations on option dealers’ using their own securities to fulfill the exercise and delivery obligation in their brokerage business (Article 115) will not be implemented presently, with specific implementation time subject to further notice. 4. Regulations on portfolio strategy (Articles 124 and 125) will be implemented after related technical development and testing are completed, with specific implementation time subject to further notice. 5. Regulations on securities margin (Articles 126 to 129) will not be implemented presently. The SSE and China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd. will formulate specific stipulations, with specific implementation time subject to further notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange　　 January 9, 2015

Notice of Releasing “SSE Business Guidelines for Market Makers in Stock Option Pilot Program”
09 Jan 2015
 　Shang Zheng Fa [2015] No. 10 Document  All market participants, With an aim of standardizing the market-making business in stock option pilot program, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the “SSE Business Guidelines for Market Makers in Stock Option Pilot Program” (the “Guidelines” for short) in accordance with the “Administrative Measures on Pilot Program of Stock Option Trading” and the “Guidelines for Securities and Futures Agencies to Participate in Pilot Program of Stock Option Trading” of the China Securities Regulatory Commission and the “SSE Rules for Pilot Program of Stock Option Trading” and other related regulations. The SSE hereby releases the “Guidelines” and notifies relevant issues as follows: 1. The “Guidelines” shall take effect from the date of issuance. 2. Considering the progresses in the business and technical preparation of the market and relevant agencies, regulations on investors’ inquiries and market makers’ providing of asks and bids (Item 2, Article 3 and Item 5, Article 15) in the “Guidelines” will not be implemented presently, with specific implementation time subject to further notice. 3. The time and details for the SSE’s acceptance of market-making application materials will be subject to further notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange　　 January 9, 2015

Notice of Releasing “SSE and CSDC Administrative Measures on Risk Control of Stock Option Pilot Program”
09 Jan 2015
 Shang Zheng Fa [2015] No. 8 Document  All market participants, With an aim of standardizing the pilot program of stock option, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd. (CSDC) have jointly formulated the “SSE and CSDC Administrative Measures on Risk Control of Stock Option Pilot Program” (the “Risk Control Measures” for short) in accordance with the “Administrative Measures on Pilot Program of Stock Option Trading” of the China Securities Regulatory Commission and other related regulations. The SSE hereby releases the “Risk control Measures” and notifies relevant issues as follows: 1. The “Risk Control Measures” shall take effect from the date of issuance. Option dealers should complete business and technical preparations in accordance with the regulations as soon as possible.　　2. Regulations on portfolio strategy (Section 4, Chapter 2) will be implemented after the related technical development and testing are completed, with specific implementation time subject to further notice.　　3. Regulations on securities margin (Section 5, Chapter 2) will not be implemented presently. The SSE and CSDC will formulate specific stipulations, with specific implementation time subject to further notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange, China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd.　　 January 9, 2015

Notice of Releasing “SSE Guidance for Investor Suitability Management for Pilot Program of Stock Option”
09 Jan 2015
  　Shang Zheng Fa [2015] No. 9 Document  All market participants, With an aim of standardizing the pilot program of stock option, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the “SSE Guidance for Investor Suitability Management for Pilot Program of Stock Option” (the “Guidance” for short) in accordance with the “Administrative Measures on Pilot Program of Stock Option Trading” of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the “SSE Rules for Pilot Program of Stock Option Trading” and other related regulations. The “Guidance” is hereby released and shall take effect from the date of issuance. Option dealers should, in accordance with the “SSE Guidance for Investor Suitability Management for Pilot Program of Stock Option”, formulate the operation guidance for investor suitability management of stock option and relevant working systems, fully remind investors of major risks, especially explain to them the differences between trading of stock options and that of securities and futures contracts, properly carry out the work of investor suitability management and investor education, and take effective measures to learn and check investors’ awareness of stock options’ risks, and launch continuously the work of investor suitability management and investor education. Shanghai Stock Exchange　 January 9, 2015

Notice of Releasing “Sample Brokerage Agreement for SSE Stock Option Pilot Program”, “Essential Articles of Risk Disclosure Statement for Stock Option”
09 Jan 2015
　　Shang Zheng Fa [2015] No. 11 Document  All Option Dealers and relevant market participants, With an aim of standardizing the pilot program of stock option by option dealers, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd. (CSDC) have jointly formulated the “Sample Brokerage Agreement for SSE Stock Option Pilot Program” and the “Essential Articles of Risk Disclosure Statement for Stock Option” (see attachments). The two documents are hereby released, and all the relevant parties are required to abide by them. Option dealers should, in accordance with the above-mentioned documents, formulate the “Agreement on Brokerage of Stock Option” and the “Risk Disclosure Statement for Stock Option”, and work out, in accordance with the “SSE Guidance for Investor Suitability Management for Pilot Program of Stock Option”, the operation guidance for investor suitability management of stock option and relevant working systems. Besides, they should fully remind investors of major risks, especially explain to them the differences between trading of stock options and that of securities and futures contracts, properly carry out the work of investor suitability management and investor education, take effective measures to learn and check investors’ awareness of stock options’ risks, and launch continuously the work of investor suitability management and investor education. Since the release day of the notice, option dealers can sign the “Agreement on Brokerage of Stock Option” and the “Risk Disclosure Statement for Stock Option” with investors. Shanghai Stock Exchange, China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd.　　 January 9, 2015

Notice of Releasing “Business Guidelines for Information Disclosure, Trading Suspension and Resumption of Listed Companies Caused by Significant Asset Reorganization”
08 Jan 2015
  　　Shang Zheng Fa [2015] No. 5 Document  All market participants, With an aim of standardizing behaviors such as information disclosure and trading suspension and resumption of listed companies caused by significant asset reorganization, maintaining good order in the securities market, and protecting investors’ lawful rights and interests, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has developed the “Business Guidelines for Information Disclosure, Trading Suspension and Resumption of Listed Companies Caused by Significant Asset Reorganization” (see attachment) by integrating 8 “Memoranda of Information Disclosure of Significant Asset Reorganization of Listed Companies” and the “Notice of Strengthening Regulation on Abnormal Stock Trading Related to Significant Asset Reorganization of Listed Companies” (Shang Zheng Gong Zi [2012] No. 48 Document) in accordance with relevant regulations including the “Administrative Measures for Significant Asset Reorganization of Listed Companies” and the “Rules No. 26 on Contents and Format of Information Disclosure by Companies Publicly Issuing Securities – Application Documents for Significant Asset Reorganization of Listed Companies” of the China Securities Regulatory Commission and the “SSE Stock Listing Rules”. The business guidelines are hereby released and shall come into effect from the date of release. Attachment: Business Guidelines for Information Disclosure, Trading Suspension and Resumption of Listed Companies Caused by Significant Asset Reorganization Shanghai Stock Exchange　　 January 8, 2015

Q&A on SSE’s Regulation on Industry Information Disclosure of Listed Companies
04 Jan 2015
After nearly one year’s preparation in business, personnel and technical system, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will officially adjust on January 5, 2015 the existing regulatory mode on listed companies’ information disclosure, which will transform from the jurisdiction-featured regulation to the industry regulation. This is another major move by the SSE to follow the trend and requirement of regulatory transformation and to promote the self-regulatory system innovation after releasing direct channel for information disclosure in 2013. An official of the SSE answered related questions raised by reporters. I. Please give a brief introduction of the SSE’s major concerns of adopting the regulatory model of industry information disclosure. Our securities regulatory system always attaches importance to the selection and improvement of the regulation on information disclosure, and regards it as the fundamental part of performing the regulatory duty of “2 maintenances and 1 promotion” (the maintenance of the open, fair, and just market order, and that of the legal rights and interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors, as well as the promotion of the sound growth of the capital market) and better building a market with “Justice, Fairness, and Openness”. Jurisdiction-featured regulatory model was adopted prior to this adjustment. In this model, regulators are arranged for according to different jurisdictions where listed companies are located to perform their regulatory duties. It has been operated for nearly 2 decades, and it has played a positive role in such aspects as learning the general situations of listed companies within specific jurisdiction, urging listed companies to perform the obligation of information disclosure, realizing immediate coordination with the regional offices of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), and forming joint force in regulation. Since 2014, the CSRC regulatory department for listed companies conceived a gradual transformation from the jurisdiction-featured regulatory model to the regulatory model of industry information disclosure according to the general deployment of regulatory transformation and actual demands of investors. Local branches of the CSRC also developed specific measures for the industry regulation model on the basis of their actual conditions, and these measures have been partially adopted in their daily regulation of information disclosure. All these trials and efforts have accumulated experiences and provided references for the SSE’s adjustment to its regulatory model. For the SSE, the transformation from the current regulatory model to the industry regulation model is based on the following 4 aspects: First, to better fulfill self-regulatory duty. According to the “Securities Law” and the “Measures on Administration of Information Disclosure of Listed Companies” of the CSRC and other regulations, stock exchanges should monitor the information disclosure of listed companies and other obligors for information disclosure to ensure authenticity, accuracy, completeness, timeliness, and impartiality. In the meantime, the regulatory focus of the capital market will move down in the backdrop of the ongoing market-oriented reform, and exchanges will become the increasingly important links in the capital market regulatory system, which requires exchanges to fulfill their duty of self-regulation. Comparatively speaking, the regulatory model of industry information disclosure is based on investors’ demands, which is more reasonable, professional and efficient. We should take this opportunity to adjust regulatory concept, optimize regulatory mechanism, innovate regulatory method, and improve regulatory efficiency. All these efforts are to better fulfill the duty of self-regulation in the “Securities Law” and serve and respond to investors’ demands. Second, to better cope with new requirements for information disclosure in regulatory transformation. Year 2014 is the securities regulatory system’s first year to promote the regulatory transformation. A series of important documents about the reform and development of the capital market, including the “Opinions of the General Office of the State Council on Further Strengthening the Protection of Small and Medium-sized Investors” and the “Some Opinions of the State Council on Further Propelling Sound Growth of the Capital Market”, were released by the State Council, which specified that listed companies should be urged to enhance the effectiveness and pertinence of their information disclosure to meet investors’ demands, and this should be a key task in improving the quality of listed companies in the future. Xiao Gang, Chairman of the CSRC, required at the national securities and futures regulation meeting held in early 2014 that a regulatory concept with information disclosure as the core should be established to fully promote the regulatory transformation, investors’ need should be treated as the orientation to let information disclosure better serve investors rather than serve the needs of regulation itself. The new thoughts and requirements of information disclosure meet the rules and demands of the capital market’s long-term growth. It could provide solutions to mostly complained issues and chronic problems in the capital market. In the meantime, the CSRC hopes that stock exchanges could fully take charge of frontline regulation on information disclosure related to listed companies’ periodical reports, temporary announcements and others, build authoritative regulation on information disclosure, and cement self-disciplinary management. This requires pertinent adjustment to the model, concept and methods of self-regulation to further improve regulation of information disclosure. Third, to better suit the new changes brought by the adoption of the direct channel for information disclosure. Since the launch of the SSE direct channel for information disclosure in July 2013, it has been operated steadily for more than 1 year. All the listed companies have been incorporated in the scope of direct channel. From the perspective of direct disclosure categories, besides a small number of announcements such as trading suspension and resumption and ex-right and ex-dividend that must adopt preliminary processing to ensure simultaneous operation with related information disclosure, 85% of announcements of the SSE market could now realize direct disclosure. We see obvious enhancement of the sense of duty of listed companies in information disclosure and of the market efficiency of information disclosure. To match with direct disclosure, the work flow of the SSE regulatory department for listed companies is also optimized and more efficient. Examiners could now learn the sensitive information for stock price and other general information at the same time with investors after the day’s trading was closed, and aftermath examination would be adopted. The SSE’s role and focus in information disclosure regulation has shifted from prior examination to in-process and aftermath regulation. All these changes have created ideal prerequisites for the SSE’s further adjustment to the existing regulatory model. In the meantime, the internal energy of the capital market has been fully activated under the backdrop of the CSRC’s promotion of market-oriented reform. Various innovations keep emerging, which presents more complicated environment and forms for regulation on information disclosure, and aftermath regulation would be tougher. From the perspective of investors’ information demands, it has become realistic challenge for the SSE’s self-regulation to discover abnormal situations as soon as possible, handle hot issues in time, toughen the law enforcement on rule-breaking behaviors, and increase the effectiveness and pertinence of information disclosure. Therefore, to further improve the accuracy and depth of regulation on information disclosure is not only the external requirements raised by the market and investors, but also an intrinsic option for the SSE to perform its regulatory duty and establish its authority as a regulatory body after the launch of the direct channel for information disclosure. Fourth, to better serve the development of the SSE’s blue chip market. Currently, there are nearly 1,000 companies listed in the SSE. While its market size is expanding, the industries of listed companies are also all the more complete. The fundamental and pillar industries such as finance, real estate, mining, and transportation have gained steady growth, and the number of listed companies from emerging industries such as culture, information communication, high-end equipment manufacturing, and internet also increased. The industry structure and size of listed companies have undergone great changes. The SSE’s blue chip market has formed a pattern of “one exchange’s market covering various industries”. In the meantime, with the SSE’s enhanced inclusion and ability of serving the real economy, the information disclosure rules mainly based on traditional listed manufacturing companies have become difficult to meet the differentiated disclosure needs of listed companies from different industries in such aspects as business model, valuation basis, profits and competitive edge. From the perspective of industry, it has become the market’s expectation that listed companies could disclose more information related to investment decisions to accurately reveal their investment value. Therefore, the market foundation for industry regulation has formed, and it is the right time for adopting the industry information disclosure. II. What are the changes of and adjustments to the SSE’s regulatory concepts for listed companies’ information disclosure in this new regulatory model? After adopting the regulatory model of industry information disclosure, the SSE will take industries of listed companies as regulatory basis and the arrangement of regulators will depend on whether listed companies are in the same industry or similar industries. While optimizing regulatory formation, the SSE will also change and adjust its regulatory concept, which will involve the following 4 aspects: First, it will further transform from prior regulation to in-process and aftermath regulation. The general regulatory model of information disclosure adopted by the SSE for listed companies was “nanny style” regulation before the launch of direct channel for information disclosure, which led to various problems such as vague duties on information disclosure, lack of intrinsic motivation for the improvement of information disclosure among listed companies, insufficient demonstration of companies’ investment value according to disclosed information. Meanwhile, the regulation focused on compliance and thus the demonstration of listed companies’ investment value and effectiveness remained insufficient. After the adoption of the regulatory model of industry information disclosure, the SSE will spare no efforts to transform into a “doctor style” regulation which will be problem-oriented on the basis of the direct channel for information disclosure which has been adopted for more than 1 year, and further enhance the sense of first responsible persons for information disclosure among listed companies and other market bodies, and adjust the SSE’s regulatory focus to in-process and aftermath regulation. We will make use of relative advantages of industry regulation to exert the “diagnosis” function of this “doctor style” regulation to more effectively guide, encourage and urge listed companies to reveal risks and value factors that are common in their industries as well as unique to themselves by comparing with different listed companies in the same industry, and to help investors to gain more pertinent information for investment decisions. Second, it will further unify regulatory standard for information disclosure. The unification of regulatory standard is one of the tough issues in regulation on listed companies. After the launch of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, the channel for the SSE to go global was opened and thus there is an urgent need for unified regulatory standard. In the jurisdiction-featured regulatory model, as listed companies tend to bear obvious differences and unique features, the adoption of a unified regulatory standard could be too rigid as well as difficult. The regulatory standard summarized on the basis of jurisdiction tends to be individual, loose and unsystematic, and it could not meet the demand for a more open, impartial, and fair environment after the transformation. The regulatory model of industry information disclosure will be helpful to solve problems mentioned above. We should proceed from similar industry models to enhance feasibility and reasonability of unification of regulatory standard through industry information disclosure guidance and sample of benchmarking companies. Third, it will further enhance the openness of self-regulation and the sense and ability of quick reaction. The capital market is an information cluster and information disclosure is the foundation for reasonable allocation of resources and smooth trading. The emerging of internet and we-media has enabled real-time and diversified information spread and the negative effects of illegal behaviors in information disclosure tend to have a greater impact and will cause more serious damages to the interests of investors. Meanwhile, various new situations and problems tend to emerge and the possibility of illegal behaviors could also increase with the progress of the market-oriented reform and decreasing of prior control. Facing this market environment and regulatory situation, we need to communicate our regulatory stance through transparent regulation to effectively stabilize the market sentiment so as to positively respond to various hot issues and emergencies and try our best to prevent the prevailing of negative conditions. The adoption of the regulatory model of industry information disclosure will enable exchanges to enhance the transparency of regulatory process and standard with a unified regulatory standard. Meanwhile, exchanges could enhance their ability to discover problems and to make effective judgments to potential risks, so as to spot, respond, announce and resolve in time. Fourth, it will enhance listed companies’ efficiency in self-regulation. In jurisdiction-featured regulatory model, one regulator would need to handle companies in different industries and types within one jurisdiction, and the regulation would generally be fundamental, scattered, and extensive. In the regulatory model of industry information disclosure, exchanges could gather companies in the same industry and allocate regulatory forces on this basis, and thus they could compare with, analyze, and judge the common places and differences of similar companies in terms of operation, business and corporate finance to enhance the accuracy and depth of information disclosure regulation. On this basis, exchanges could improve their efficiencies in information disclosure regulation through information disclosure examination to reveal risks in business and operation of specific listed companies. Meanwhile, the categorized regulation on companies in the same industry could also help regulators to enhance their understandings of the industry circle, organization structure, operation model, process flow, and financial features, and this would help regulators to accumulate regulatory experiences and industry knowledge to develop habits of active thinking and in-depth research, offering more possibilities to the overall improvement of regulators’ expertise and professional ability. III. How does the SSE categorize different industries in the regulatory model of industry information disclosure? There are 995 companies listed in the SSE by December 31, 2014. According to the CSRC’s industry categorization, these companies involve 18 first-tier industries. Considering the great number and different features of manufacturing companies, we have also taken into consideration 26 second-tier industries. Therefore, there are a total of 43 industries. We have developed, on this basis, the categorization standard of “emphasizing key industries, integrating related industries and appropriately taking into account of special industries”. First, we have taken into consideration of such factors as proportions in national economy, number of peer companies, and the portion of market capitalization of the SSE market to conduct key regulations on key industries. 11 industries including real estate, equipment manufacturing, pharmacy, chemical, transportation, mining, finance, retail, information communication, agriculture and forestry, and utilities were selected for key regulation. In addition, integrated classified regulation will be adopted for ST companies and B-share companies which bear certain particularities in such aspects as information disclosure, daily regulation, and business operation, so as to cement risk control. Second, we will integrate similar industries, pair between any two industries according to correlations among key industries, and adopt joint regulation. For instance, real estate industry is a typical capital-intensive industry, bearing strong dependency to the financial industry; over 20% of loans of commercial banks have been invested in the real estate industry; meanwhile, real estate is also an important financial collateral. Therefore, a joint regulation over the two industries could contribute to effectively identifying potential risks through comparison and mutual corroboration. Third, we will adopt necessary combinations to industries other than key industries according to their correlations with key industries. For example, the building industry tends to bear similar features and operation model with the real estate industry, while the furniture manufacturing and wood processing industries are typical industries driven by the real estate industry. Therefore, the three industries should be incorporated into one regulatory group of industry information disclosure. In the future, the SSE will adopt dynamic adjustments to the current industry categorization according to actual conditions of industry development and changes among companies listed on the SSE. IV. After the adoption of the regulatory model of industry information disclosure, what are the SSE’s arrangements in terms of realizing regulatory cooperation with the CSRC’s regional offices to form joint regulatory forces? In previous self-regulation of information disclosure, the effective guidance of the CSRC and supports of local CSRC branches have become important guarantees for the SSE to perform self-regulation. Objectively speaking, the adoption of the new regulatory model will bring some changes to the SSE’s cooperation with local CSRC branches, but the strength and effect of the joint regulation could only be enhanced but not be reduced. Therefore, we have developed pertinent arrangements according to the key points and tough points of the regulatory cooperation of industry information disclosure by insisting on previously effective mechanisms and experiences. First, establish a platform to share information with the CSRC’s regional offices. We have further improved functions of “CSRC Zone” on our extranet and develop it into a platform to enhance the communication between the exchange and the CSRC by directly pushing various information such as regulatory news, regulatory documents, comments on separation system, company announcements, credit archives, laws and regulations, research and data. Now, regulators of listed companies from the CSRC’s regional offices could log onto this platform to get real-time information. Second, establish relatively stable communication mechanism. Now, we have completed 36 contact lists of the SSE regulators, including their names, telephones, e-mails, industry groups and information on industries they take charge of, and these lists have been sent to each regional office of the CSRC. We also developed contact lists of local CSRC branches after receiving contact information of their responsible personnel to ensure joint regulation would be duly assigned. Besides, we have further improved the level of contact persons for key cases, and the responsible person of the SSE’s listed company regulation department will be responsible for the regulatory coordination with the CSRC’s regional offices and develop work mechanism for responsible personnel’s connection. Meanwhile, departments’ responsible persons and responsible personnel for companies will also be listed in regulatory coordination documents which will be sent to the CSRC’s regional offices to facilitate contacts. Third, master the general conditions of listed companies in all jurisdictions. After the adoption of the regulatory model of industry information disclosure, understanding of general conditions of listed companies in all jurisdictions will remain to be the key part of the SSE’s company regulation. We will assign specific personnel to carry out regular summary of the general conditions of listed companies on the basis of 36 jurisdictions after the release of annual and semi-annual reports and develop brief reports. Specific personnel will be arranged to summarize conditions of risky companies discovered in daily regulations at the end of each quarter and communicate with the CSRC’s regional offices to track and learn the risk information and report to responsible personnel in the SSE. V. After the adoption of the regulatory model of industry information disclosure, what are the changes that should be made in the information disclosure of listed companies? After the adoption of the regulatory model of industry information disclosure, the target of related information disclosure regulation will attach more importance to effectiveness, pertinence, simplicity and comparability on the basis of trueness, accuracy, completeness and timeliness. Therefore, companies listed on the SSE should also adapt to the change of the regulatory model to realize simultaneous adjustment to their information disclosure concept, content and methods. First, we should transfer from being compliance-oriented to focusing on both compliance and effectiveness. Currently, the information disclosure of listed companies mainly focuses on whether they could meet the requirements of regulatory departments, bearing obvious inclination to compliance. This leads to misplacement of the service object of information disclosure to some extent. To have information disclosure become the core, the information disclosure should not be limited to compliance in the form. We should enable the information disclosed to reveal companies’ investment value and to become effective information for investors. Therefore, listed companies, apart from meeting regulatory requirements, should pay more attention to meet investors’ demands for information and start from their industry features to disclose more industry information that could help investors to make investment decisions after the adoption of the regulatory model of industry information disclosure. Second, we should transform from being completeness-oriented to focusing on both completeness and simplicity. After over 20-year development, we have developed a full-fledged information disclosure system of listed companies and the information disclosed by listed companies is also relatively complete. However, the information disclosed by certain listed companies tends to be redundant and difficult to understand, and investors could not understand the key information. For example, many investors complained that the annual report has become increasingly complex. It tends to include almost all information, which is difficult for investors to find key points; moreover, the casual use of jargons and lack of explanation to industry terminologies could mislead investors. Therefore, listed companies should pay more attention to make the information concise and easy-to-understand on the basis of comprehensive information disclosure, trying to explain to investors the complex industry knowledge and financial information through simple words. Third, we should transform from legality-oriented to focusing on both legality and voluntariness. Currently, listed companies disclose their information in accordance with various laws and regulations on information disclosure released by the CSRC and exchanges. However, the rule system for information disclosure tends to be general and normal and thus could not fully reveal investment value of specific listed companies and specific industries. Take the retail industry for example, many key indicators such as shop numbers, number of employees, sales volume per square meter, and rent per square meter are not included in the scope of statutory information disclosure. Pharmaceutical companies are also unwilling to give a detailed disclosure of such key information as R&D investment, project progress, which could reveal the companies’ investment value. Therefore, listed companies should, on the basis of obeying general information disclosure requirement, improve the individuality of their information disclosure and focus on the collection and organization of industry information and reveal more information that could be helpful to show their investment value and potential risks. In addition, listed companies, after the adoption of the new regulatory model, should continue to obey various requirements of information disclosure and strengthen their sense of duty, and cooperate with the SSE’s industry regulation transformation. We will also encourage listed companies to raise their opinions and suggestions on such issues as work mechanism, industry categorization and information disclosure standards so as to jointly improve the implementation and regulation of industry information disclosure. VI. What preparations has the SSE made for the regulatory model of industry information disclosure? What are the detailed work arrangements recently? The adoption of the regulatory model of industry information disclosure is the SSE’s another major transformation on information disclosure self-regulation mechanism after the launch of the direct channel for information disclosure. The SSE’s company regulation department will not only face the adjustment to regulatory concept and method, but also involve the transition and connection of its internal working mechanism, and this will lead to the situation of “collective rotation of employees and adjustment to companies”. We have worked hard on the following two aspects to ensure stable transition: First, we have properly arranged the handover of regulation on listed companies. We have further improved company profiles for each listed company and held various meetings to discuss the handover issue to ensure the successors could fully and accurately learn the histories and potential risks of companies they are to regulate. In addition, special handover files and workflows are designed for such high risk items including suspension and resumption of securities, stock listing, refinancing, M&A and reorganization, and convertible bonds that will involve information disclosure operation and business operation. We set up a one-month special guarantee period to ensure smooth handover. It should be noted that companies listed on the SSE should be responsible to investors and cautiously process various information disclosure items within this one-month special guarantee period to ensure the accuracy of various information disclosure items and operation. Second, we will organize responsible personnel to learn their industries beforehand. Currently, the SSE’s regulation department for listed companies have basically developed various industry research database, and industry analysts from such professional institutions as CITIC Securities, Haitong Securities and Industrial Securities, as well as experts from leading listed companies, such as Bank of China, Huaneng Power, China Shenhua, SAIC Motor, and Shanghai Pharma, were invited to give more than 20 trainings to help regulators to become familiar with the basic conditions and features of these industries. We also know that the adoption of this new regulatory model is simply a beginning of the SSE’s adjustment and transformation of regulatory model. To realize the original intention of this new regulatory model, we should continuously promote various work designs to execute related plans and measures. Recently, we are preparing to promote the following two aspects: First, we will gradually establish complete industry information disclosure indicators and guiding system. The SSE has released information disclosure guidance for real estate, petroleum and natural gas, and coal industries. With nearly one year’s practice, the guidance has reached certain effects and won popularity among investors and market entities in improving the pertinence and effectiveness of information disclosure and meeting investors’ demand for information. Currently, the SSE is preparing information disclosure guidance for the retail industry and the power industry, and it is estimated to be put into practice in 2015. In the future, the SSE will release information disclosure guidance for other industries step by step. Second, we will explore the 2014 industry annual report examination. After the adoption of the new regulatory model, the same group of SSE regulators will examine the annual reports of listed companies in the same industry. We have decided to enhance horizontal comparisons of financial information, business lines, and business modes of listed companies in the same industry in our 2014 annual report examination, so as to urge listed companies to disclose pertinent information that investors need and further improve the effectiveness and comparability of the information disclosure regulation. Furthermore, we will conduct key examinations on “High Risk” and “Concerned” companies discovered in previous company handover in accordance with categorized regulation principle and require companies to fully reveal major risks and adopt corresponding regulatory measures in time. The adoption of the regulatory model of industry information disclosure is a major reform in the SSE’s information disclosure self-regulation model under the backdrop of regulatory transformation, and it is also a new trial for the SSE to actively perform its self-regulatory duty during the market-oriented reform. The reform this time will be difficult, influential and have a wide involvement. The SSE will continue to collect opinions and suggestions from investors and market entities to keep improving related work mechanisms and methods, insist on being market-oriented and practice-based to enhance effectiveness of information disclosure regulation of listed companies, safeguard the open, fair and just market order, and protect the rights and interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors, thus promoting the steady and healthy development of the market.

Overview of Shanghai Market
31 Dec 2014
  Data by December 31, 2014     Value Compared with Beginning of This Year ± Increase or Decrease (%)   Index SSE Index 3234.68 1118.70 52.87 SSE 180 Index 8044.51 3004.24 59.60 SSE 380 Index 4866.71 1514.22 45.17 Variety No. of Listed Companies 995 42 4.41 Stocks Total Amount 1039 42 4.21 No. of Companies Issuing A Shares 986 42 4.45 No. of Companies Issuing B Shares 53 0 0.00 Bonds Total Amount 2646 915 52.86 No. of Spot Bonds Listed 2603 917 54.39 No. of Bonds Listed for Repurchase 43 -2 -4.44 Funds No. of Funds 68 10 17.24 Including No. of ETFs 61 14 29.79 Preferred Shares Total Amount 5 - - Scale Stocks Total Market Value (RMB100 Million) 243974 92809 61.40   Market Value of Shares without Sales Limit (RMB100 Million) 220496 83969 61.50   Issued Shares (100 Million Shares) 27085 1333 5.18   Shares without Sales Limit (100 Million Shares) 24915 1183 4.99   Bonds Total Value of Entrusted Bonds (RMB100 Million) 22888 5669 32.92   Funds Total Market Value (RMB100 Million) 1875 606 47.81   Including ETFs (RMB100 Million) 1438 474 49.09   Price-to-earnings Ratio Stock Market 15.99 5.00 45.51   SSE 180 13.33 4.08 44.09   SSE 380 30.19 9.04 42.73   Accounts Opened Total Amount of Investor’s Accounts Opened (10 Thousand) 12310 866 7.57   Total Amount of Accounts of A Shares Opened (10 Thousand) 9577 479 5.26       Value Year-on-Year ± Increase or Decrease (%)   Deals Stocks Total Amount (RMB 100 Million) 375634 146026 63.60   Bonds Total Amount (RMB 100 Million) 866849 241009 38.51   Spot Bonds (RMB 100 Million) 25446 10134 66.18   Bonds for Repurchase (RMB 100 Million) 841402 230875 37.82   Funds Total Amount (RMB 100 Million) 37479 28490 316.92   Including Total Amount of ETFs (RMB100 Million) 10143 3436 51.24   Capital Raising and Financing Stocks Total Amount of Capital Raised (RMB 100 Million) 3927 1412 56.11   No. of IPO Companies 43 43 -   Total Amount of Capital Raised by IPO Companies (RMB 100 Million) 312 312 -   Bonds Total Financing Amount (RMB 100 Million) 2995 -149 -4.74   No. of Companies Conducting Financing 377 123 48.43   Preferred Shares Total Amount of Capital Raised (RMB 100 Million) 1030 - -   No. of Companies Raising Capital 5 - -     Notes: All the bonds for financing included in the above table have been approved by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. All the data of the entrusted bonds, opened accounts and OTC bonds are collected before December 30, 2014.    

Guide, Drive, Guarantee Capital Market Development through Rule of Law
29 Dec 2014
——The 5th SSE Legal Forum Held in Beijing. To further implement the guiding principle of “Decisions on Major Issues of Comprehensive Promotion of Rule of Law” delivered during the 4th Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee, the 5th SSE Legal Forum was held in Beijing on December 27. Organized by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and jointly undertaken by China Renmin University, Peking University and East China University of Political Science and Law, the forum featured the theme of “Market Management Based on Rule of Law: Realistic Choice and Promotion Route of China’s Capital Market”. Attending the meeting and delivering speeches were officials including Zhuang Xinyi, Vice Chair of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), Xin Chunying, Deputy Director of the Legal System Committee of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress, Xi Xiaoming, Deputy Director of the Supreme People’s Court of the PRC, Sun Qian, Deputy Chief Procurator of the Supreme People’s Procuratorate of the PRC, Gan Zangchun, Deputy Director of the Legislative Affairs Office of the State Council, Gui Minjie, SSE Chairman of the Governors, and Chen Yulu, President of China Renmin University. Around 100 scholars, experts and market professionals from legislation, justice, law-enforcement departments, universities and research institutes also attended the meeting. Zhuang Xinyi said in his speech that the essence of the market economy is economy based on rule of law, which is the foundation of good management of the capital market. Rule of law will guide, drive and guarantee the development of the capital market, and the related practices base on rule of law in the capital market have also driven the progress and improvement of China’s rule of law. Higher requirements and greater tasks have been raised by the 3rd and the 4th Plenary Sessions of the 18th CPC Central Committee as well as in the “Some Opinions of the State Council on Further Propelling Sound Growth of the Capital Market”. Therefore, we need to realize capital market reform and development as well as regulation and law enforcement by adopting thoughts and manners of rule of law. First, fundamental legal systems such as the “Securities Law” should be promoted and improved by taking the reform of the registration system of stock issuance as the core. As amending the “Securities Law” is a premise for the registration system’s formal implementation, we should facilitate the work of the National People’s Congress on amending the “Securities Law”. Second, administrative law enforcement efficiency should be further improved by focusing on regulatory transformation. We should further streamline administration and decentralize power and enhance methods of in-process and aftermath regulation to guide and standardize market entities’ behaviors. Third, we should take providing solutions to investors’ interests remedy as a goal, so as to establish a comprehensive dispute settlement and interest compensation mechanism. We should drive the improvement of judicial interpretation of civil compensation for securities infringement, promote pilots of securities administrative settlement, and explore the building of professional dispute settlement organizations. Fourth, the principle of being open and transparent should be adopted to develop an honest and law-abiding market. We should be investor-oriented to develop a differentiated information disclosure system; we should make disclosure the normal practice and non-disclosure the exception, driving administrative affairs open to the public. Fifth, we should develop an effective interaction between innovation and rule of law, and form a new normal in which reform and innovation are guided by rule of law and implemented on the track of rule of law. All reforms and innovations in the market should have legal evidences, and legislation should also meet the demands of reforms as well as economic and social development. Xin Chunying said that the 4th Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee provided the direction for promoting rule of law in the capital market by raising such requirements as accelerating the construction of the fair legal system, protecting property rights and contracts, unifying the market, ensuring equal exchange and fair competition, conducting effective regulation to improve the legal system for the socialist market economy. The rule of law in China’s capital market is better developed compared with other fields. However, its current status remains to be improved in terms of market mechanism, laws and regulations, participants’ creditability, and regulatory ability. Though the market mechanism has taken shape, the administrative method remains to prevail and the legal system could not meet the demands of the market which is in rapid development. All these are issues that call for attentions in the coming legal improvement. The comprehensive promotion of rule of law will be the greatest benefit to the capital market. Improving the legal system in the capital market in accordance with the requirements of rule of law will be beneficial to the long-term, sustainable and stable development of the capital market as well as the realization of a more standard, transparent and prosperous capital market. Xi Xiaoming stressed that consolidating the capital market’s foundation for rule of law to protect investors’ lawful rights and interests is a long-term and systematic project. From the legal perspective, the improvement of the capital market’s legal system will require to focus on providing solutions to the following issues: first, we should improve the legal framework that will meet the development of the multi-layer capital market to improve the current conditions that existing laws are mainly focused on standardizing floor trading and enterprises’ financial securities, and developing formalities for investor suitability management, while they lack necessary focus on OTC trading, assets’ financial securities, and actual protection for investors; second, we should improve the civil duty system that matches with the reform of the registration system of stock issuance, enhance and detail the boundaries of the behaviors of the parties concerned, sort out the relation between the government and the market, and improve related regulatory rules on this basis; third, we should improve the system of investor suitability management to solve such issues as different regulatory standards for the same product, vague standards for the duty of disclosure, as well as compensation scope for non-fulfillment of suitability obligations and vague statement of reasons for liability exemption plea; fourth, we should establish diversified securities dispute settlement mechanism to exert its function as replacing dispute settlement, so as to form a joint force among administrative regulation, legal judgment, and the whole securities industry. Sun Qian said that the Procuratorate is obliged to provide services and guarantees for the capital market’s healthy development through performing its functions according to law. First, it should consolidate the foundation of rule of law in the market management through penalizing such securities and futures crimes as insider trading, trading through undisclosed information, and securities market manipulation. Second, it should enhance public confidence in the capital market through cracking down on abuse-of-power criminal cases in the securities industry to enhance the penalization on employees in financial institutions and regulatory authorities who take advantage of their power to gain illegal profits. Third, it should improve prosecution standards and judicial interpretations for securities crimes and provide solutions to the suitable laws for securities crimes to develop a comprehensive legal support for the market management that is based on rule of law. Fourth, it should launch securities crime prevention to prevent the spread of securities crimes. Gan Zangchun pointed out that the improvement of the capital market legislation must be based on China’s actual conditions, and it should match the on-going reform and development and explore a capital market based on rule of law with China’s own characteristics through accurate understanding of the features of China’s capital market from the perspective of history and reality. Our further efforts in promoting legislation for the capital market should focus on the following 3 aspects: first, we should conduct comprehensive and objective evaluation on the existing capital market to determine the real issues of the capital market development and objective requirements of legislation; second, we should handle properly the relations between legislation and reform, and legislation and the market, so as to ensure the consistency of legislative decision and reform decision, stimulate market energy while ensuring risk prevention and defense of bottom line, and follow the principle of “let the buyers beware” and “let the sellers perform their duties”. Third, the legislation for the capital market should try to gather the greatest common understandings and find the largest common divisor. In addition, we should further ensure public contribution to the legislation and deepen the various parties’ participation during this process to represent their demands and respond to their concerns. Gui Minjie said that China’s economy is entering into a new normal marked with a medium-high speed of growth. In this new normal, the reform and development of the capital market will face new opportunities and direct financing will be on the fast track. Capital formation and export will enter into a phase, and risk management will evolve into the theme of development. According to the strategic deployment of “enhancing stock exchanges’ leading role in the market” in the “Some Opinions of the State Council on Further Propelling Sound Growth of the Capital Market”, the SSE will further promote transformations in 4 aspects on the basis of its own positioning: first, in terms of market positioning, it will transform from a local exchange into an open one; second, in terms of market structure, it will transform from a spot exchange into a comprehensive one; third, in terms of market regulation, it will transform from a cooperative exchange into an independent one; fourth, in terms of market experience, it will transform from a platform exchange into a service-oriented one. During the transformations, the SSE will attach importance to rule of law, taking advantage of its role of being guiding, promoting and guaranteeing in deepening the reform. By adhering to its value orientation of rule of law, it will continue to improve the market rule system, guaranteeing and standardizing the performance of its self-regulatory obligations. Chen Yulu said that the capital market is the practitioner and pioneer of rule of law in China as well as the booster of the healthy development of China’s market economy. The decision of comprehensive promotion of rule of law in China made by the 4th Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee marked a new stage of rule of law in China, which will bring great opportunities to China’s capital market reform and promote it to march forward under the rule of law. 5 renowned legal experts also delivered their speeches in the section of keynote speech. Wang Liming, President of the China Civil Law Society and Professor of China Renmin University, provided 6 suggestions to the improvement of civil liability of misrepresentation. First, we should cancel or limit the use of procedural prerequisite in civil liability of misrepresentation; second, we should determine the civil tort of misrepresentation as unreal joint and several liability; third, we should determine the compensation calculation of property loss due to misinterpretation in different categories, and investor-inclined calculation should be adopted; fourth, we should expand the relief scope for investors’ loss and should incorporate the situation in which investors sold securities due to misinterpretation and suffered losses; fifth, we should respect the willingness of the parties concerned and avoid excessive mediation; sixth, we should develop diversified compensation systems such as compensation fund. Guo Feng, Chairman of the China Securities Law Society and Deputy Director of the Policy Research Office of the Supreme People’s Court of the PRC, suggested that to adopt rule of law in the capital market should focus on the following aspects: first, we should further understand the basic functions of the capital market, exert its functions to serve the real economy, promote the market reform and innovation, enhance its investment function. Second, we should further enhance information disclosure as well as investigation on illegal deeds such as insider trading and misinterpretation to create a fair market environment and order. Third, we should enhance the consistency and transparency of the law to improve the independency and fairness of regulation and law enforcement. Fourth, we should insist on scientific legislation and try to have China’s legislation for the capital market to reach world class through this revision to the “Securities Law”. Gu Gongyun, Professor of East China University of Political Science and Law, suggested that additional protection should be provided for public enterprises with social capital investment. Against the backdrop of categorized reform, we should sort out tax preference policies to establish a fair market competition order. The details are as follows: first, we should carefully examine the nature, type and legal evidence of preferential policies; second, we should adopt classified processing on the basis of categorized reform in state-owned enterprises. Third, tax preferences and financial subsidies should be incorporated into the system of rule of law to use the limited resources to support public enterprises. Xu Ming, SSE Vice President, mentioned that internationalization, marketization, and legalization will be the basic direction for the future development of China’s capital market. The internationalization of China’s capital market is entering into a “golden phase”. This will go beyond opening up to the global market and focus on the internationalization of China’s rules and systems. The construction of legal system should be enhanced to handle various problems and challenges that will occur during the process of internationalization. First, we should improve market operation mechanism to improve the transparency and effectiveness of market rules. We need to develop a reasonable cross-border securities issuing conditions and procedures, study for the solutions for legal issues such as VIE structure and “dual-class share structure”; evaluate market access system at a proper time, and deregulate in a step-by-step manner; in addition, the information disclosure system should be optimized. Related information should be disclosed on the basis of different time frames and industries to avoid unnecessary stock trading suspensions. Second, we should enhance the capital market regulation and enhance international securities regulatory cooperation. The regulation should focus on cross-border illegal deeds to improve the cross-border investment protection mechanism, promote international organizations to develop related international conventions and agreements to drive the unification of securities laws and regulatory rules among different countries. Third, we should attach importance to the conflicts among securities laws and solve the issue of law application. According to the principle of most significant relationship, we should define directly the application scope for conflict in the “Securities Law” on the basis of different types and conditions of cross-border securities activities; and we should define extraterritorial effect and jurisdiction of the “Securities Law” in accordance with the “effect standard” which focuses on whether domestic investors’ interests have been harmed. Ye Lin, Vice President of the China Commercial Law Society and Professor of the Law School of China Renmin University, offered suggestions on how to accurately seize China’s securities market features and promote the legal system construction in the securities market. First, marketization, market opening-up, or competition issue will be the real issue in China’s “Securities Law” and securities market development, which will bear direct influences on the macro condition and structure of specific issues and is the foundation of solving the specific issues. Second, we should re-interpret risk transfer and management, the fundamental functions of the securities market, and discuss the system building’s rigidity and reasonability on this basis from a legal perspective. Third, we should have a new understanding of the relationship between the government and the market, respect the operational rule of the risk market, and abandon regulations on price and quality, and completely shift to regulation on risk disclosure. Fourth, we should have a new understanding of the aim of investor protection and have investor protection as the key bottom line of the “Securities Law”. Huang Wei, Chief Lawyer of the CSRC and Director of the CSRC Legal Department, pointed out that the capital market is a market where rules should prevail. The history of the capital market development is also a history of rule of law. The two bear a positive correlation. The market will become prosperous if rule of law is fully adopted, and the market will decline if rule of law is abandoned. We should promote the reform and development of the capital market by adopting the thoughts and manners of rule of law and sort out and improve supporting rules, regulations and systems on the basis of fundamental laws such as the “Securities Laws” and the “Futures Laws”, and continue to streamline administrative approval items, enhance in-process and aftermath regulation as well as law enforcement, so as to give full play to the role of rule of law in escorting the capital market operation. In subject discussion session, experts, scholars, and market professionals from securities firms, listed companies and law firms had fruitful discussions on 6 subjects, including: the outlook of legal system construction in the capital market, the registration system of stock issuance and securities legislation, the system construction for the multi-layer market development, the legal system for bond market development and derivatives innovation, the regulation and law enforcement in the capital market, as well as the securities justice and diversified dispute settlement mechanism. In the discussion about the outlook of legal system construction in the capital market and the registration system of stock issuance and securities legislation, Liu Changchun, Director of the Financial and Economic Department of the Legislative Affairs Office of the State Council, pointed out that the revision to the “Securities Law” should find the largest common divisor; Chen Jie, Professor from the Law School of the China Academy of Social Science, believed that the legal system of the capital market will need to go through 4 major transformations to reach its maturity: transformation from government interference to market allocation, quantity to quality, legislation to law revision, individual legal design to comprehensive law connection. According to Gong Fanrong, Director of the Legal Affairs Office of the Financial and Economic Committee of the National People’s Congress, the top priority of the “Securities Law” this time is to legally adopt the registration system of stock issuance and further streamline administration and decentralize power, insist on marketization and rule of law to protect lawful rights and interests of investors. For legally adopting the registration system, we should not only draw on merits of overseas mature markets but also take into consideration the actual conditions of China’s capital market. Lu Hongbing, Lawyer from Granall Law Firm, suggested that the registration system of stock issuance should give full play to functions of intermediaries and define their responsibilities, and diversified legal liability investigation mechanism should be improved to guarantee the registration system from back stage. In the discussion about the system construction for the multi-layer market development and the legal system for bond market development and derivatives innovation, Lu Zefeng, Deputy Director of the Department of Listed Companies Regulation of the CSRC, said that the multi-layer capital market has gained a rapid development, and thus it should be legally divided into an open market and a non-open market and different rules should be adopted. Jiang Xiaohua, Deputy Director of the CSRC Zhejiang Branch believed that Zhejiang’s enterprise development suggested the necessity for local and regional markets to provide financing services to mini-sized, small, and medium-sized enterprises, enhancing the capital market’s ability to serve the real economy. Regional equity market should be incorporated into the multi-level capital market. But private equity financing should be the center. In the meantime, a smooth board switching mechanism should be established. Lu Wenshan, Deputy Director of the Department of Issuance Regulation of the CSRC, said that under the backdrop of the new normal, the improvement of the bond market legal system should transfer from legislation for entities and products to legislation for deeds, its regulation should transform from divided management to cooperative and coordinated regulation, so as to gradually abandon the situation of fragmented standardization and divided regulation. In the discussion of the regulation and law enforcement in the capital market and the securities justice and diversified dispute settlement mechanism, Cheng Hehong, Deputy Director of the CSRC Legal Department, said that the adoption of administrative penalty as civil compensation’s procedural prerequisite during the securities justice process should be further studied. Tang Liming, Deputy Director of Shanghai No. 1 Intermediate People’s Court, suggested taking the advantage of ADR modes such as arbitration and mediation in terms of diversified dispute settlement mechanism in the capital market. Lu Wendao, Director of the SSE Department I of Listed Companies Supervision, said that the “PE + Listed Companies” mode tends to become increasingly popular in practices, and PE has penetrated from IPO into M&A and reorganization. Its mode is to become minority shareholders and then cooperate with listed companies to establish an M&A foundation or a limited partnership and sign an agreement on market capitalization management as well as an agreement on service for M&A and reorganization. The mode could help to learn a target company in advance and lower M&A cost of the relevant listed company, and it could be beneficial to the merger of industry and financial capitals. However, it bears disadvantages such as pursuing for short-term interests and neglecting long-term target and major business development, going after new industry hotspots blindly and relying on capital operation. In addition, this mode could lead to many problems such as market manipulation and insider trading. Therefore, information disclosure on such aspects as related PE structure, connected transaction, and interest conflict should be enhanced. It is learned that the SSE Legal Forum was first held in 2010, and it has been held for 5 consecutive years. The forum this year focused on the realistic choice and promotion route of the capital market. Based on review and sum-up of the development of rule of law in the capital market, the forum had an in-depth discussion on such subjects as improving the capital market’s legal system, promoting reform and development of the capital market, enhancing rule of law and regulation in the capital market, which have contributed to the comprehensive promotion of rule of law in the market management. Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Arrangement for Trading Days of Hong Kong Stock Connect in Last 3 Days of 2014 and Whole Year of 2015
24 Dec 2014
  　　CIIS (2014) No. 8 Document  All market participants, According to arrangements made by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Ltd. (SEHK) for trading days in 2014 and 2015 and relevant regulations, China Investment Information Services Limited (CIIS) hereby releases an arrangement for trading days of Hong Kong Stock Connect in last 3 days of 2014 and the whole year of 2015 as follows: I. CIIS will not provide services for Hong Kong Stock Connect from December 29 (Monday) to 31 (Wednesday), 2014. II. CIIS will provide services for Hong Kong Stock Connect on SSE A-shares’ trading days in 2015 from January 1 (Thursday) to December 28 (Monday), 2015, except other special arrangements set for the following public holidays: 1. New Year’s Day: No services will be provided for Hong Kong Stock Connect from January 1 (Thursday) to 3 (Saturday), and the services will be provided as usual on January 5 (Monday). Besides, the market will close on the weekend on January 4 (Sunday).　　 2. Spring Festival: No services will be provided for Hong Kong Stock Connect from February 16 (Monday) to 24 (Tuesday), and the services will be provided as usual on February 25 (Wednesday). Besides, the market will close on the weekend on February 15 (Sunday) and 28 (Saturday).　　 3. Good Friday for HK: No services will be provided for Hong Kong Stock Connect on April 3 (Friday).　　 4. Tomb Sweeping Day (Ching Ming Festival for HK): No services will be provided for Hong Kong Stock Connect on April 5 (Sunday) and 6 (Monday). Besides, the market will close on the weekend on April 4 (Saturday).　　 5. The day following Easter Monday for HK: No services will be provided for Hong Kong Stock Connect on April 7 (Tuesday), and the services will be provided as usual on April 8 (Wednesday).　　 6. Labor Day: No services will be provided for Hong Kong Stock Connect from May 1 (Friday) to 3 (Sunday), and the services will be provided as usual on May 4 (Monday).　　 7. The Birthday of Buddha for HK: No services will be provided for Hong Kong Stock Connect on May 25 (Monday), and the services will be provided as usual on May 26 (Tuesday).　　 8. Dragon Boat Festival (Tuen Ng Festival for HK): No services will be provided for Hong Kong Stock Connect from June 18 (Thursday) to 22 (Monday), and the services will be provided as usual on June 23 (Tuesday).　　 9. Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Establishment Day: No services will be provided for Hong Kong Stock Connect on July 1 (Wednesday), and the services will be provided as usual on July 2 (Thursday).　　 10. The day following the Chinese Mid-Autumn Festival for HK: No services will be provided for Hong Kong Stock Connect on September 27 (Sunday) and 28 (Monday). Besides, the market will close on the weekend on September 26 (Saturday).　　 11. National Day: No services will be provided for Hong Kong Stock Connect from September 29 (Tuesday) to October 7 (Wednesday), and the services will be provided as usual on October 8 (Thursday). Besides, the market will close on the weekend on October 10 (Saturday).　　 12. Chung Yeung Festival for HK: No services will be provided for Hong Kong Stock Connect on October 21 (Wednesday), and the services will be provided as usual on October 22 (Thursday).　　 13. Christmas Day for HK: No services will be provided for Hong Kong Stock Connect from the afternoon of December 24 (Thursday) to December 25 (Friday), and the services will be provided as usual on December 28 (Monday). III. CIIS will notify whether services for Hong Kong Stock Connect will be provided or not from December 29 (Tuesday) to 31 (Thursday), 2015 after a notice of arrangements for market closure for public holidays in 2016 is released by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. IV. Clearing and settlement issues for the trading of Hong Kong Stock Connect are carried out according to the arrangements of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. China Investment Information Services Limited　　 December 24, 2014

SSE Cancels 3 Registration Items
18 Dec 2014
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) announced yesterday that 3 registration items would be cancelled, including securities companies’ subordinated bonds transfer, asset management plan’s share transfer, and participant business unit (PBU) lease. There will be no approval procedures and size limitations for applications that fall into the above-mentioned 3 items, with an aim to streamline beforehand approval items. This matches the SSE’s long-promoted idea of regulatory transformation, administration streamlining and shifting the regulation to the backstage. According to an SSE official, the State Council and the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) have recently released the “Decisions on Cancellation and Adjustment of Administrative Approval Items” (the Decisions) and the “Notice of Further Streamlining Securities and Futures Registration Items” (the Notice). In response to the Decisions and the Notice, the SSE has further streamlined its approval and registration items on the basis of the actual regulatory conditions and the approval and registration item list issued this July. In accordance with the general requirement of marketization and institutionalization, approval items with clear legal evidence in the “Securities Law” or other laws and regulations will be maintained, while registration and approval procedures of items that should be determined by market entities will be cancelled. The 3 registration items cancelled this time are securities companies’ subordinated bonds transfer, asset management plan’s share transfer, and PBU lease. The registration cancellation for securities companies’ subordinated bonds transfer is based on the CSRC’s requirements for regulatory consistence, while that for asset management transfer, a breakthrough in the SSE’s transformation to loose control and enhance regulation, is to meet the market demand, which further expands the channel of asset management transfer. For PBU lease, market entities with specific identities will develop their business arrangements via independent agreements. The previous practices adopted the principle of “approve according to application” and there were no substantial checks. The majority of the applications were approved once they could meet the conditions. Therefore, the cancellation of this item shows that the SSE’s determination in regulatory transformation and that it is not afraid of separation of powers and decentralization. It is learned that the highlight in these cancellations is the marketization of cleaning standards. The SSE has classified items in need of beforehand approval into 2 categories: membership and securities listing, both with legal evidences supported by laws and regulations. Registration items are mainly those based on department regulations and business rules. The cleaning of these items is a cautious decision based on considerate scientific demonstration. The cleaning standards could be generally divided into 3 categories. First, items in need of approval in accordance with the “Securities Law” will be retained. Second, items that are essentially decided by market entities will be cancelled. Instead of beforehand approval, the SSE will adopt after-event regulation to these items. Third, for items with obvious self-regulatory characteristics, market entities, though meeting necessary conditions, may not be suitable to enter the market or operate. In this regard, the SSE will set up approval procedures as well as threshold or size that match market development to maintain trading order, prevent market risks and protect the interests of small-and-medium-sized investors. Thus, these items still need to go through approval procedures. To sum up, the SSE has cancelled registration of 3 items on the basis of their necessity and reasonability, which is a new measure to further promote self-regulatory transformation and minimize its management on micro-issues. It is also a key measure adopted by the SSE to carry out the State Council’s requirement of streamlining beforehand approval and further improve the quality, efficiency and transparency of self-regulation and services. In the meantime, to continuously promote standard, open and market-oriented self-regulation, the SSE decides to seize this opportunity of items cancellation to carry out evaluation on approval and registration items in its self-regulation and keep adjusting the item list to make the streamlining and decentralization work a normal operation, so as to improve its market regulatory and service quality. Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Implements Aftermath Examination on Mergers, Acquisitions, Reorganizations in Non-license Category
15 Dec 2014
With the registration system coming and the regulator streamlining administration and decentralizing authority, the intensification of regulation on information disclosure is being accelerated. Recently, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) released the “Notice of Carrying out Information Disclosure Work of Mergers, Acquisitions and Reorganizations in Non-license Category” (the “Notice” for short) in a bid to further carry out the regulatory idea of “Loosening Control and Cementing Regulation” and carry out relevant requirements of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). It is learnt that the SSE, a frontline regulator of information disclosure, released the “Notice” to cement the in-process and aftermath regulation on mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations in non-license category, strengthen relevant information disclosure, enhance the transparency of the merger, acquisition and reorganization market, curb the violation of dodging regulation through mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations in non-license category, and prevent from any mess after decentralizing authority. Since the beginning of this year, the CSRC has continuously propelled the market-oriented reform of mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations. In the “Administrative Measures for Significant Asset Reorganization of Listed Companies” (the “Measures for Reorganization” for short) and the “Administrative Measures for Acquisition of Listed Companies” recently released, the CSRC cancelled the examination and approval of significant purchases, sales, and replacements of assets by listed companies without being involved in back-door listing, and also cancelled the prior examination and approval of tender offer. An analyst says that the above-mentioned cancellations consolidate the exchanges’ supervision over listed companies’ information disclosure, embody the regulatory ideas of streamlining administration and decentralizing authority, strengthening information disclosure, and cementing in-process and aftermath regulation, as well as meet the trend of the capital market’s development. Requirements for information disclosure specified Turning from prior examination and approval to aftermath examination and approval shows a major change in regulatory idea, which will help listed companies, reorganization parties, and intermediaries fulfill their responsibilities, thus improving the market efficiency. The “Notice” includes the following 3 aspects: first, it is specified to carry out aftermath examination on mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations with administrative license already canceled. Nevertheless, considering the business operation issue related to tender offer, prerequisite form examination will still be carried out for a tender offer report’s full text; second, the arrangement for 6-month transition is implemented. During the transition period, a listed company should simultaneously apply for suspension of stock trading after disclosing a scheme of major asset reorganization in non-license category, or directly disclosing a report draft of reorganization in non-license category. The period of trading suspension should not be more than 10 working days, and the SSE should complete the examination on information disclosure within 10 working days; third, it is stressed that companies with problems found in aftermath examination should make supplementary disclosure. It is also specified in the “Notice” that for any document of information disclosure failing to meet relevant regulations, the SSE will require the relevant company to explain, and disclose an announcement on modification or supplementation as well as full text and abstract of the amended report. An analyst says that aftermath examination could reduce time for trading suspension, which helps to boost relevant work items of market participants including listed companies and elevate the market efficiency. Besides, the regulation of supplementary disclosure will greatly meet investors’ right to know and protect their interests. Through reading announcements, investors could better understand details of listed companies’ mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations as well as the concerns of the regulators and relevant trading risks, which help them make decisions in their transactions. Average time for trading suspension: only 3.67 days Facts have proved that “Streamlining Administration and Decentralizing Authority” has lifted the market efficiency, vitalized listed companies, propelled the capital market’s function of optimizing resource allocation, thus showing the fundamental purpose of the capital market: serving the real economy. Statistics show that since the “Measures for Reorganization” came into force, the numbers of significant purchases, sales, and replacements of assets by listed companies without being involved in back-door listing have seen dramatic increases. As of December 12, in the SSE market, 6 listed companies had disclosed schemes of major asset reorganization or report drafts of reorganization in non-license category. *ST Shanghai Sanmao Enterprise (Group) Co., Ltd., Sichuan Western Resources Holding Co., Ltd., and *ST Baoding Tianwei Baobian Electric Co., Ltd. had made supplementary disclosure of announcements on remarks on revision and resume stock trading according to the SSE’s aftermath examination opinions. Remarkably, the average time for trading suspension after the above-mentioned 3 companies disclosed reorganization schemes is only 3.67 working days, including time for the SSE’s examination and that for the companies’ preparations for information disclosure documents for supplementary remarks, far less than the 10 working days at most as regulated. An insider of the SSE introduces that SSE Department I of Listed Companies Supervision has established a strict, high-efficient, and orderly internal examination system for this. It carries out aftermath examination on reorganization schemes according to media reports after the reorganization schemes are disclosed, and completes the examination work in principle within 5 working days. The insider also reveals the major concerns in aftermath examination. With information disclosure as the core, importance is attached to necessity of acquisition, cooperativity of business, compliance of ownership, fairness of target asset’s pricing, rationality of profit prediction, and appropriateness of accounting treatment. For cash offer, the SSE also pays attention to whether a purchaser could pay and whether uncertainty in implementing a scheme and other risks have been disclosed to investors. A market participant says that the above-mentioned issues cover major core problems in mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations of listed companies in non-license category, which are also top concerns of investors. The more specific disclosure listed companies make, the better judgments investors will make. Especially, after the 6-month transition, no trading suspension will be arranged during the period of aftermath examination, and the efficiency of information disclosure for mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations in non-license category will be further elevated as well. Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange Notice of Carrying out Information Disclosure Work of Mergers, Acquisitions and Reorganizations in Non-license Category

Notice of Soliciting Opinions on “SSE Rules for Pilot Trading of Stock Options (Draft for Comment)” and Others Business Rules
05 Dec 2014
SSE Announcement [2014] No. 12 Document   In order to standardize the pilot business of stock options of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), control relevant risks, and protect investors’ legal rights and interests, the SSE has formulated the “SSE Rules for Pilot Trading of Stock Options (Draft for Comment)” and other supporting business rules (see the attachments) according to the “Securities Law”, the "Regulations on Administration of Futures Trading", and the China Securities Regulatory Commission’s relevant regulations. It hereby solicits opinions from the public.   Please send your opinions or suggestions to the SSE in written form or by e-mail before December 19, 2014. E-mail: gpqq@sse.com.cn. Mailing address: 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120   Shanghai Stock Exchange December 5, 2014

Notice of Soliciting Opinions on “Management Measures of SSE and CSDC on Risk Control for Pilot Trading of Stock Options (Draft for Comment)”
05 Dec 2014
SSE Announcement [2014] No. 13 Document   In order to standardize the pilot business of stock options of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), control relevant risks, and protect investors’ legal rights and interests, the SSE and China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd. (CSDC) have jointly formulated the “Management Measures of SSE and CSDC on Risk Control for Pilot Trading of Stock Options (Draft for Comment)” (see the attachment) according to the “Securities Law”, the "Regulations on Administration of Futures Trading", and the China Securities Regulatory Commission’s relevant regulations. It hereby solicits opinions from the public.   Please send your opinions or suggestions to the SSE and CSDC in written form or by e-mail before December 19, 2014. E-mail: gpqq@sse.com.cn. Mailing address: 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120   Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd.   December 5, 2014

Remarks on “Business Guidelines for Information Disclosure about Significant Assets Reorganization, and Stock Trading Suspension and Resumption of Listed Companies (Draft for Comment)”
26 Nov 2014
This year has seen increasing cases of listed companies planning significant assets reorganization. In order to further promote the market-oriented reform of mergers, acquisitions, and reorganizations, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) has recently released the newly revised “Administrative Measures for Significant Assets Reorganization of Listed Companies” (the “Measures”). In order to effectively link up with the “Measures”, considering the practical needs and the demands of all market participants for information disclosure in the significant assets reorganization, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has revised and integrated the “Memorandum on Information Disclosure Work in Significant Assets Reorganization of Listed Companies” (the “Memorandum”) and other related business notices previously released, and drawn up the “Business Guidelines for Information Disclosure about Significant Assets Reorganization, and Stock Trading Suspension and Resumption of Listed Companies (Draft for Comment)” (the “Daft”).   In accordance with the general requirements for marketization and legalization, the “Draft” refines and expands the requirements for information disclosure in the entire process of significant assets reorganization and straightens the matters related to trading suspension and resumption caused by significant assets reorganization, with an aim of better meeting the demand of investors for information and facilitating obligors handling information disclosure issues related to significant assets reorganization.   1. General Ideas (A) Integrating and unifying the rules for information disclosure of mergers, acquisitions, and reorganizations. As information disclosure of mergers, acquisitions, and reorganizations involves many matters and processes, the SSE used to release a number of memorandums on information disclosure for significant assets reorganization and relevant business notices, which have played an important role in practice. But with the market-oriented reform deepened, the relevant rules have shown the problem that they were not unified enough and failed to entirely meet the demand for market development, and it is necessary to rationalize and integrate the relevant business rules and define the regulatory requirements, so as to facilitate the understanding and application for all market participants.   Based on the foregoing considerations, the “Draft” has absorbed and integrated the formerly released 7 memorandums on information disclosure for significant assets reorganization and notices on the regulation over abnormal transactions of shares related to the reorganization, and combined them into 1 standardizing document. In structure, the “Draft” sets 8 chapters based on the reorganization progress, including six chapters of rumors of reorganization and clarification, planning and trading suspension for the reorganization, trading review, disclosure of reorganization scheme, termination of reorganization, and implementation of reorganization, in addition to the general article and the supplementary article.   (B) Implementing the supporting work for the “Measures” In accordance with the general concept of loosening control and strengthening regulation, the “Measures” has made adjustments and improvements in multiple aspects involving significant assets reorganization, such as the matters requiring administrative examination and approval, the pricing mechanism for shares issuance, and the threshold for non-related third parties to participate in the reorganization, and made the market-oriented institutional arrangements.   To effectively link up with the “Measures”, the SSE has rationalized the “Memorandum”. On the one hand, the procedure for handling information disclosure issues for significant assets reorganization and the relevant principles for trading suspension and resumption have been specified, and on the other hand, the requirements for information disclosure and regulatory arrangements after cancelling and optimizing the items requiring administrative examination and approval have been enhanced simultaneously. Meanwhile, in line with the principles of significance and simplicity, the SSE has adequately adjusted the original disclosure contents of the plan for significant assets reorganization. On the one hand, the disclosure of main business lines of underlying assets and pricing fairness that are the most concerned by investors has been added, and on the other hand, the information that has been disclosed by listed companies in periodic reports has been simplified.   (C) Refining the requirements for information disclosure following the emergence of market rumors about significant assets reorganization and the trading suspension, so as to safeguard the rights for knowledge and participation of small and medium-sized investors. Significant assets reorganization has great impact on a listed company’s fundamental and investing value, hence it is usually an issue highly concerned by investors. In the current market environment, before a listed company officially launches reorganization and starts the process of trading suspension, usually guesses and expectations are made by the market and media, leading to significant fluctuations in stock prices. Meanwhile, as the negotiations, auditing, assessments and other matters related to significant assets reorganization are complicated, a listed company usually has a long-lasting trading suspension. But currently information disclosure of most listed companies during trading suspension is too vague and simple, failing to meet the demand of investors for information of the reorganization progress.   For the above reasons, on the basis of the “Memorandum”, the “Draft” has included the “rumors of reorganization” into the contents of standardized information disclosure, and in accordance with trading features during significant assets reorganization, confirmed and refined relevant requirements for information disclosure in some important processes during trading suspension, such as employing financial consultants, signing framework agreement on reorganization with the other party of trading, and obtaining the prior approval of government departments.   (D) Standardizing internal decision-making procedures for trading suspension and resumption caused by significant assets reorganization and relevant requirements for information disclosure. The procedures for trading suspension and resumption in the course of significant assets reorganization are important institutional arrangements to ensure smooth implementation of the reorganization in the current market environment. Timely trading suspension can minimize the possibility of insider trading, prevent the abnormal fluctuations in stock prices, and maintain the fairness of information disclosure; timely trading resumption can maximize the protection of normal trading rights for investors, guard against the systemic risk, and improve the market efficiency.   In current market practice, vast majority of listed companies have applied to the SSE for trading suspension as soon as they initiate significant assets reorganization. But at the same time, quite a few listed companies have seen the scheduled trading resumption postponed a number of times. Postponing trading resumption is not only connected to the complexity of the reorganization, but also related to a small number of listed companies failing to take the trading suspension seriously and failing to be diligent and responsible during the trading suspension.   In order to better protect the investors’ rights for trading and knowledge, the “Draft” has specified internal decision-making procedures that listed companies should implement for postponing trading resumption and requirements for information disclosure, strengthening the responsibility of the directorate meeting in making the decision for long-term trading suspension. It also requires listed companies to adopt briefings for investors, an interactive method for information disclosure, to clearly explain to investors reasons for postponing the trading resumption and the achieved progress.   (E) Intensifying regulation over the "failed" reorganization. According to incomplete statistics, since 2013, about 30% of the reorganization cases have seen the termination announced before applications for administrative licensing were submitted to the CSRC, and the increasingly regular failures of mergers, acquisitions, and reorganizations and their negative impacts have caused widespread concerns in the market.   After the termination of reorganization by listed companies, the prices of their shares could fall. Also, due to the relatively significant short-term fluctuations in the A-share market, restrictions on trading opportunities resulting from prolonged trading suspension may also make investors lose the right time to buy or sell stocks. In addition, as some companies failed to clearly disclose reasons for failures on termination of the reorganizations, investors were unable to learn about specific moves made by listed companies in advancing and terminating the reorganizations. All these problems have caused investors to cast doubts on the actions of terminating the reorganizations after long-term trading suspension.   For this reason, the “Draft” has strengthened responsibilities and obligations of the directorates of listed companies and the related intermediaries in the course of terminating reorganizations, specified the internal decision-making procedures to be implemented, and added the requirements for and specific contents in information disclosure for terminating the reorganizations. Meanwhile, based on the durations of trading suspension of shares in listed companies when reorganizations terminate, it makes different provisions on conditions for adopting interactive information disclosure as well as restrictive provisions on follow-up launch of reorganizations.   2. Main Contents (A) To support the CSRC’s revision to the “Measures”, the relevant requirements for information disclosure (Article 24, Article 29, and Article 43 – 46) shall be implemented. First, with regard to the significant assets reorganization requiring no administrative licensing from the CSRC, after going through the internal examination procedures such as the directorate meeting and the shareholders’ meeting and obtaining approval of other government departments (if applicable) as well as fulfilling the obligation for information disclosure, a company will be able to implement the reorganization.   Second, to support the work mechanism of parallel approval, it is stipulated that when disclosing the approval documents of the CSRC, a listed company should disclose other opinions of administrative approval that have not been obtained and the relevant opinions of intermediaries at the time.   Third, in the full text of the reorganization draft report, the measures for filling up and returning the predicted diluted earnings per share for the reorganization and the conditions for triggering the extension of the lockup period of the issued shares purchased by related parties should be disclosed.   Fourth, in the relevant guidelines for the format of interim announcement, it is stipulated that when involved in purchasing assets by shares issuance, a listed company, when planning to adjust the offering price after the event, should have the scheme for adjusting the offering price approved in a separate proposal in the resolution at the first directorate meeting.   Fifth, with regard to the assets purchased by issuing shares that have no significant synergies with existing main business lines, it is required that a listed company should fully explain and disclose the business development strategy and business management mode after the transaction in the reorganization plan, and the possible risks caused by the business transformation and upgrading and the solutions, etc.   Sixth, with regard to the violations of the “Measures” in the course of planning and implementing the reorganization, a listed company should suspend or terminate the reorganization and make disclosure in a timely manner in accordance with the requirements of the CSRC.   (B) The requirements for clarifying the reorganization rumors are added (in Chapter II). First, it is required that a listed company should timely pay attention to the reorganization rumors on public media or in the market and timely make confirmation with its controlling shareholder and actual controller. Second, having actually begun to plan reorganization, a listed company should immediately apply to the SSE for trading suspension. Third, a listed company that have not started the planning for reorganization but cannot ensure whether to initiate the planning for the reorganization issues in the next three months should immediately apply to the SSE for trading suspension while holding a briefing for investors at the same time. And trading shall be resumed after disclosing the circumstances at the briefing for investors and making clarification announcements.   (C) The principles and information disclosure requirements for the trading suspension for reorganization have been made clear, and the obligations of diligence and responsibility of the directorate in applying for postponing trading resumption (Article 19 and 20) have been intensified. First, a listed company planning to apply for trading suspension for more than 2 months should hold a directorate meeting to discuss whether to continue to suspend the trading before the 2-month expiration. Second, a listed company planning to apply for trading suspension of more than 3 months should hold a briefing for investors besides the directorate meeting for discussion. Third, a listed company planning to apply for trading suspension of more than 5 months should hold a directorate meeting again to discuss the issue of postponing the trading resumption before the 5-month expiration; after that the briefing for investors should be held to disclose the circumstances after every 1-month trading suspension.   (D) The requirements for disclosure of information on terminating the reorganization have been intensified (Chapter VI). First, in terms of the reorganization termination within 1-month trading suspension, it is required that a listed company should make announcements on terminating the significant assets reorganization in line with the relevant guidelines for announcement format to disclose reasons for the termination in detail while making a commitment to no more planning for significant assets reorganization within 3 months after the announcement. Second, a listed company terminating the reorganization after 1 month of trading suspension should further disclose the reorganization framework, hold a briefing for investors and make a commitment to no more planning significant assets reorganization with 6 months after holding the briefing for investors to disclose the result. Third, a listed company planning to terminate the reorganization after disclosing the reorganization scheme for the first time and before the shareholders’ meeting discussing the reorganization scheme should immediately apply for trading suspension, examine the trading of the company’s shares on the secondary market, hold a directorate meeting to discuss the matter of terminating the reorganization, disclose the explanation for the termination and the opinions of independent directors and independent financial advisers, and hold a briefing for investors, etc. Fourth, a listed company terminating the reorganization after the approval of the reorganization scheme at the shareholders’ meeting is required to hold a shareholders’ meeting to deliberate on the matter of terminating the reorganization besides fulfilling the abovementioned obligations for disclosure.   (E) Through the formatting guidelines, the whole-process information disclosure for reorganization of listed companies has been standardized (Articles 15, 28, and 43 – 47). The revision has seen the requirements for continuous information disclosure significantly increased after a listed company discloses the reorganization scheme for the first time.   First, before the trading suspension and plan disclosure for the reorganization, a listed company is required to sign the service agreements with the hired financial adviser, and fulfill the relevant obligations for information disclosure in a timely manner when signing the reorganization framework agreement with the other party of the transaction, making significant revisions or changes to the framework agreement, and obtaining the prior approval of government departments.   Second, a listed company is required to timely disclose the risks likely to cause the changes or termination to the reorganization scheme after disclosing the reorganization scheme for the first time.   Third, at the stage of examination of the CSRC, a listed company should timely disclose the decisions on the application for administrative approval for the significant assets reorganization not being accepted, being accepted again, suspended in examination, resumed in examination or terminated in examination by the CSRC, the case of the company taking the initiative to apply for terminating the examination, and the result for the examination of the acquisition and reorganization committee.   Fourth, at the stages of examination and implementation, a listed company should timely disclose the situations such as receiving the documents of the CSRC on approval or refusal, completing the assets transfer and completing the implementation of the reorganization.   (F) It is confirmed that in the process of disclosing the reorganization scheme, a listed company should timely explain and clarify the questions on the market and the requirements of the SSE (Articles 24 and 26). First, by means of revising and issuing the “Guidelines for the Format of Significant Assets Reorganization Scheme for Listed Companies”, the requirements of the SSE for the forms of information disclosure for reorganization schemes have been specified.   Second, it is required that a listed company and the other parties in the reorganization should complement and improve the reorganization scheme in accordance with the examination opinions of the SSE on the format of reorganization scheme.   Third, in case of the significant doubts on the market after the disclosure of the reorganization scheme, a listed company and the reorganization participants should timely make explanation and clarification; if necessary, the SSE will require the listed company to suspend trading to verify the relevant circumstances.   Meanwhile, in order to facilitate the understanding of a listed company and related information disclosure obligors for the requirements for information disclosure, the SSE has formulated relevant guidelines for announcement formats for information disclosure in the processes such as trading suspension for reorganization, postponement of trading resumption, disclosure of scheme, and termination of reorganization, in a bid to achieve standardized, formatted and uniform information disclosure for significant assets reorganization.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Makes Rules for Trading Suspension, Resumption Caused by Targeted Additional Issuance
26 Nov 2014
After the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect program that put the Shanghai stock market on the track of internationalization, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) is taking some other new market-oriented initiatives. To address the former problems such as unclear standards and vague reasons for listed companies’ trading suspension and resumption caused by targeted additional issuance, the SSE has rationalized the related processes and standards so as to fully safeguard investors’ interests and their rights for knowledge.   Recently, to straighten issues related to trading suspension and resumption of listed companies for planning non-public shares issuance, the SSE released the “Notice of Standardizing Trading Suspension and Resumption Caused by Listed Companies Planning Non-public Shares Issuance and Relevant Issues” (the Notice for short).   According to an SSE official, on the basis of the requirements for open regulation as well as the regulatory experience amassed previously and the standards observed internally, the SSE has made clear criteria and procedures for trading suspension, postponement of trading suspension, trading resumption caused by listed companies planning non-public shares issuance, and relevant requirements for information disclosure.   This means that after the launch of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, the SSE has taken a new step in improving the regulatory transparency and the uniform regulatory standards for listed companies and actively adapting to the international standards.   A market participant says that the long-lasting trading suspension and vague explanations are irresponsible behaviors for investors and will even lead to the loss of investment opportunities. With the efforts of the SSE in meeting the market demands, actively drawing on the advanced experience of the international markets, and straightening the logics related to trading suspension and resumption, the abovementioned problems are expected to see improvement.   Ensure “Concrete Contents” in Information Disclosure   It is noteworthy that to address the former problems of listed companies such as the over-simple disclosure of planning progress, the cliché reasons for postponement of trading resumption, and the ambiguous reasons for termination of planning non-public shares issuance, the Notice requires listed companies to fully comply with the obligation of disclosing the information of the reasons for trading suspension and resumption and relevant progresses, so as to protect the rights for knowledge of small and medium-sized investors.   Previously, one of the most common statements in their announcements on the progress made by listed companies was “because there are still great uncertainties in the issue, trading of shares in the company will continue to be suspended,” and investors were totally unaware of the actual progress. From now on, the occurrence of such cases will no longer be allowed.   The Notice requires that during the period of trading suspension, a listed company should disclose the progress of planning non-public shares issuance every 5 trading days, with the contents including the advancement of all work items such as the audit and assessment and their applications for approval to the competent authority. In the announcement on postponing trading resumption, the company shall detail the specific reasons for failing to disclose the planning scheme and warn of the risk in the uncertainty of the planning result.   In addition, within 2 trading days after announcing the termination of planning non-public shares issuance, the company shall hold a briefing for investors to explain and disclose the process of the planning and the reasons for termination of the planning.   A market participant says that it is an important move by the SSE to strengthen service functions and transform regulation, which intensifies the regulation during and after the mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations, urges intermediaries to fulfill their responsibilities, and protects the rights and interests of investors and creditors, thus promoting the standardized development of mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations.   Adapt to International Standards   With the smooth launch of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, the SSE has made an important step towards internationalization, which means the SSE must catch up with the advanced international markets in the standards and level of regulation, as the opening-up process will require more transformation.   According to the market opinions, the major difference between the Shanghai market and the Hong Kong market is that the former has more trading suspension cases and longer time of trading suspension. The Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEx) implements efficient trading suspension and resumption as well as detailed information disclosure, while some listed companies on the SSE are suspected of abusing the trading suspension system. Given the inflow of international capital, it is time to solve this long-lasing problem.   An SSE official says that to adapt to the new regulatory changes and narrow the gap in the regulatory rules for trading suspension in Shanghai and Hong Kong, the Notice, in the market efficiency principle, strictly stipulates the criteria, deadlines and procedures for trading suspension and resumption caused by listed companies planning non-public shares issuance.   According to the statistics of the trading suspension cases caused by the SSE-listed companies planning non-public shares issuance since 2012, the average period of trading suspension was 13.5 days, and about 70% of the companies suspended trading for less than 10 days. Therefore, the Notice stipulates that the general trading suspension period for planning non-public shares issuance shall be less than 10 trading days, which can meet the actual demands of most listed companies.   To ensure that listed companies take trading suspension and resumption seriously, and direct and urge them to make prudent decisions, the Notice provides that if a listed company cannot disclose the non-public issuance scheme during the trading suspension in 15 trading days and needs to postpone trading resumption, it shall go through the decision-making procedure of its internal governance body, and submit the application for postponing the trading resumption to the directorate meeting and shareholders’ meeting for discussion.   Specifically, with the approval of the directorate meeting for the proposal of postponing the trading resumption, the time for the postponement shall be within 20 days; and if the directorate meeting believes that more than 20 days is needed after assessment, the proposal should be submitted to the shareholders’ meeting for discussion.   In addition, the Notice has drawn on the voting avoidance mechanism for connected transactions, making it clear that when the shareholders’ meeting discusses the proposal of postponing the trading resumption, the shareholders planning to subscribe for non-publicly issued shares shall avoid voting.   According to an SSE source, stepping up the disclosure of the SSE’s self-regulatory criteria is an important part of the regulatory transformation in the future. Next, the SSE will disclose the criteria of trading suspension and resumption and the requirements for information disclosure in significant assets reorganization.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Issues Business Guidelines for Asset Securitization
26 Nov 2014
To promote the development of the asset securitization business, following the administration rules and supporting regulations of asset securitization business issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) today issues the “SSE Business Guidelines for Asset Securitization” (the “Guidelines”), which specifies the details in issues including listing and transfer, suitability for investors, and information disclosure of the assets-backed securities (ABS).   The “Guidelines” mainly specifies the following issues.   First, the “Guidelines” specifies the principle requirements and application procedures for listing and transfer. Managers should confirm whether the conditions for listing and transfer have been met before the ABS are issued according to the “Guidelines”, as well as ensure sound business linking-up.   Second, the “Guidelines” strengthens management on suitability for investors, and specifies the scope of qualified investors.   Third, the “Guidelines” stipulates the requirement on information disclosure in issuance of the ABS and their period of duration, in order to enhance market transparency.   Fourth, the “Guidelines” clarifies the risk control measures and continuing obligations in all business links of asset securitization, with a view to protecting legal rights and interests of investors.   Fifth, the “Guidelines” specifies that, in addition to transfer of spot goods, collateralized repo could be applied for the ABS according to the relevant regulations of the SSE.   According to head in charge of relevant business of the SSE, as asset securitization is an important part of the bond market, the SSE regards sound development of the bond market as one of its key strategies.   Over recent years, the SSE’s bond market has been developing rapidly in general. There are 2,533 bonds of various types now being listed, with stock amount being RMB2.26 trillion, and the trading volume of spot goods and repurchase being RMB75 trillion this year. Beside, the SSE has always attached great importance to development of the asset securitization business, and set up a special team to promote the asset securitization business. The SSE has kept close ties with the enterprises and market institutions, in a bid to promote development of asset securitization business.   Presently, the basic asset types of the listed products include creditor's rights of lease, fee-charging rights of infrastructure, enterprise receivables, and entrusted loans. In June this year, credit-asset-backed securities were listed at the SSE for the first time. After the filing system was newly adopted for the asset securitization business, the market for asset securitization will expect rare opportunities for development.   Under the guidance of relevant regulatory authorities, the SSE, centering on development of the asset securitization market, will carry out tasks in the following 3 aspects:   First, when products are concerned, the SSE, according to the requirements for decentralizing authority, will accelerate launch of securitization products of main-category basic assets with the joint efforts of market participants to promote innovative development of the market.   Second, in terms of market organization and building supporting systems, the SSE will provide one-stop services for issuance and listing of asset securitization products, continue to improve market publicity, incubation, and innovation work, as well as seek to solve problems in law, accounting, tax, and change of mortgage and pledge involved in the process of carrying out asset securitization business through coordination.   Third, with a view to liquidity of the secondary market, development of the asset securitization business needs to be based on a bond market with certain width and depth. For all this, the SSE will further improve the trading and settlement mechanism, expand diverse investor groups, and launch collateralized agreed repo of bonds in the near future, in a bid to provide a rich variety of repo financing instruments for an array of fixed-income products including asset securitization products.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Soliciting Public Opinions on “Business Guidelines for Information Disclosure about Significant Asset Reorganization, and Stock Trading Suspension and Resumption of Listed Companies (Draft for Comment)”
26 Nov 2014
All market participants,   Recently, the China Securities Regulatory Commission has revised the “Administrative Measures for Significant Asset Reorganization of Listed Companies” (the “Measures”). The SSE hereby formulates the draft of “Business Guidelines for Information Disclosure about Significant Asset Reorganization, and Stock Trading Suspension and Resumption of Listed Companies (Draft for Comment)”, through integrating the already issued “Notice of Strengthening Regulation on Abnormal Stock Trading Related to Significant Assets Reorganization of Listed Companies” and 7 memorandums on information disclosure of reorganization, in order to follow the “Measures” and meet the practical needs of information disclosure in significant asset reorganization and the demands of all market participants. The SSE hereby solicits public opinions on the draft version (see the Attachment for the draft for comment).   Please send your opinions or suggestions to the SSE in written form or by e-mail before December 3, 2014.   Contact methods: Fax: +86-21-68811782 E-mail: listing@sse.com.cn Mailing address: SSE Department I of Listed Companies Supervision, Shanghai Stock Exchange Building, 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120   Shanghai Stock Exchange November 26, 2014

Remarks on Drawing up “Notice of Standardizing Trading Suspension and Resumption Caused by Listed Companies Planning Non-public Shares Issuance and Relevant Issues”
25 Nov 2014
I. Background This year, listed companies have sponsored more re-financing activities by planning non-public shares issuance according to the "Administration Measures on Securities Issuance by Listed Companies". It is learnt that after the China Securities Regulatory Commission amended and perfected the "Measures on Administration of Listed Companies' Acquisition" and the “Administrative Measures for Significant Asset Reorganization of Listed Companies” to further propel the market-oriented reform for mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations, listed companies, considering future mergers and acquisitions for expansion, are more eager to reserve cash through non-public shares issuance, which might result in a big increase of non-public shares issuance in the future.   According to previous cases, most listed companies applied for continuous trading suspension of their shares and relevant derivatives with reasons such as “unable to keep the planning information secret” and “there is uncertainty in non-public issuance scheme” while planning their non-public shares issuance. To regulate the issues including trading suspension and resumption related to non-public issuance planned by the listed companies, the notice is specially released for the following 3 reasons:   1. In the practice, there exist some careless applications for trading suspension, long-time trading suspension, and trading suspension without uniform standards, which exert dramatic negative influences on investors’ trading.   2. Listed companies’ long-time trading suspension for planning non-public shares issuance violates the efficiency principle and the market-oriented orientation that should be abided by in the reform of the securities issuance system and harms the cultivation of a sound and mature capital market.   3. After the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect program was implemented, stocks of nearly 600 listed companies on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) had become the target for trading by overseas investors. If the listed companies still apply for long-time trading suspension for planning non-public shares issuance in the future, it will contradict with practices and principles of the overseas securities market and might be doubted by overseas investors.   To solve the above problems, the SSE has worked out the “Notice of Standardizing Trading Suspension and Resumption Caused by Listed Companies Planning Non-public Shares Issuance and Relevant Issues” (the Notice for short) in accordance with the procedures for listed companies’ trading suspension and resumption and relevant standards.   II. Basic principle and idea The Notice mainly abides by the following 3 principles in the aspect of standardizing listed companies’ shares trading suspension for planning non-public shares issuance.   1. Reasonable need for trading suspension and resumption is guaranteed. A listed company’s planning non-public shares issuance, the high-sensitive information that will influence shares prices, needs to go through an array of procedures such as drawing up relevant scheme and negotiating with subscribers, or even needs to go through prior asset auditing and assessment or get approval from relevant competent authority. A listed company’s application for shares trading suspension during the period of planning non-public shares issuance will be helpful to avoid such violations as inside trading, as the planning will involve many people and last a long time. Thus, we have done the statistics work for the data about the time of trading suspension of SSE-listed companies for planning non-public shares issuance since 2012, and learnt the reasons for and basic circumstances of the trading suspension, after which we have stipulated the mechanism and time for application for trading suspension to guarantee the reasonable need for trading suspension for planning non-public shares issuance.   2. A listed company is required to determine issues of trading suspension and resumption through its internal governance system. In the practice, some listed companies had unreasonably long-time trading suspension for planning non-public shares issuance. Statistics since 2012 showed that the longest time was 143 days, which damaged investors’ right of managing market fluctuation risk through trading. Apart from the possible reason of a complex scheme, one of the other reasons was that the company made careless decision on the trading suspension, with a sluggish and imprudent planning. Thus, the Notice requires that listed companies shall strictly implement internal governance and decision-making procedures; board chairmen must sign to confirm the applications for trading suspension; postponement of trading resumption shall be discussed and approved by directorate meetings and shareholders’ meeting before implementation.   3. Listed companies are urged to fulfill their obligations of information disclosure, so as to protect small and medium-sized investors’ right to know and their participation right. The Notice specifies the requirements for listed companies’ information disclosure at each planning stage to guarantee the small and medium-sized investors’ right to know the listed companies’ planning, with an aim to solve such problems as disclosing non-concrete planning progress and vague reasons for postponement of trading resumption or termination of planning. Besides, by referring to the voting avoidance mechanism for stakeholders of connected transactions, the Notice specifies that related shareholders planning to subscribe for the non-publicly issued shares shall avoid voting when the shareholders’ meeting discusses the proposal of postponing trading resumption, in a bid to guard small and medium-sized investors’ right to participate in the decision-making.   III. Main contents and reasons According to the progress of the listed company’s planning non-public shares issuance, the Notice gives 18 stipulations for the procedures and relevant standards for application for trading suspension and resumption at different stages, with the main contents and reasons as follows:   1. It is specified that the period for trading suspension for planning non-public shares issuance shall be less than 10 trading days generally. According to the data from 2012 to now, the period of 70% trading suspension of listed companies for planning non-public shares issuance is less than 10 trading days. Thus, the Notice sets less than 10 trading days as a basic requirement for trading suspension, which could meet most listed companies’ actual need for planning non-public shares issuance.   2. Indispensable circumstances for application for postponement of trading resumption are stipulated. The Notice sets a mechanism that a listed company could apply for postponement of trading resumption after a 10-day trading suspension, but with applicable circumstances strictly stipulated, including “there is heavy workload of auditing and assessment on planned-to-be-purchased assets”, “relevant issues require pre-approval from the competent authority”, and “there exists unprecedented significant issue”.   3. Requirements for procedures for directorate meeting and shareholders’ meeting to determine postponement of trading suspension are added. Since 2012, the period of nearly 20% trading suspension of listed companies for planning non-public shares issuance is more than 15 trading days. The Notice urges listed companies to fulfill internal governance and decision-making procedures to guarantee the preciseness of their application for postponement of trading suspension.   i. If a listed company plans to continuously suspend trading after a 15-day trading suspension, it shall be submitted to the directorate meeting for discussion, with the time for postponement of trading suspension controlled within 20 days.   ii. If a company’s directorate meeting holds that period for postponement of trading suspension should be more than 20 days upon assessment, the proposal of continuous trading suspension after a 20-day trading suspension shall be submitted to the shareholders’ meeting for discussion.   4. The requirement for the disclosure during the period of trading suspension for planning non-public shares issuance is cemented. The Notice cements the requirement for a listed company’s information disclosure during the period of trading suspension for planning non-public shares issuance to satisfy the needs of investors for acquiring information, with an aim to solve the problems of over-simple disclosure of planning progress, the cliché reasons for postponement of trading resumption, the ambiguous reasons for termination of planning non-public shares issuance disclosed by some listed companies after trading suspension.   i. The principle that a listed company shall disclose information at different stages during the period of trading suspension. The progress of planning non-public shares issuance shall be disclosed every 5 trading days, involving progresses in all work items such as auditing and assessment, and submitting to the competent authority for approval.   ii. A listed company shall specifically give reasons for failing to disclose the scheme in the announcement on postponement of trading resumption, and give a risk alert for the uncertainty of the planning result.   iii. A listed company shall timely hold a briefing for investors to reply to investors’ doubts about trading suspension.   iv. Within 2 trading days after making an announcement on terminating the planning of non-public shares issuance, a listed company shall hold a briefing for investors to elaborate on details of the planning process and reasons for failing to complete the planning within the period of trading suspension, and disclose them in time.   5. The promises of a listed company terminating the planning of non-public shares issuance after trading suspension are specified. To urge a listed company prudently assess trading suspension for planning non-public shares issuance, the Notice respectively stipulates according to different decision-making procedures for postponement of trading resumption: if a listed company terminates the planning of non-public shares issuance during the period of trading suspension, which has not been discussed and approved at the shareholders’ meeting, it shall promise that the same issue will not be planned within 3 months; if a listed company terminates the planning of non-public shares issuance during the period of trading suspension, which has been discussed and approved at the shareholders’ meeting, it shall promise that the same issue will not be planned within 6 months.   6. Trading suspension for planning non-public shares issuance, and that for having not announced significant issue or planning significant assets reorganization are rationalized. In the practice, as a specific scheme of non-public shares issuance has great uncertainty, some listed companies generally apply for trading suspension for having not announced significant issue, while some listed companies change the reason for trading suspension to planning non-public shares issuance after a period of trading suspension for planning significant assets reorganization.   The Notice fixes the rationalization principle for the above-mentioned circumstances. First, if a listed company confirms to plan non-public shares issuance after applying for trading suspension with the reason of having not announced significant issue, it is deemed that the company applies for trading suspension with the reason of planning non-public shares issuance. Second, if a listed company changes the reason for trading suspension to planning non-public shares issuance after trading suspension for planning significant assets reorganization, the period of trading suspension shall be less than 10 trading days.  

Gui: Shanghai-HK Stock Connect Bound to Succeed
17 Nov 2014
A speech delivered by Gui Minjie, Chairman of the Governors of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), at the opening ceremony for the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect program.   Respected Party Chief Han Zheng, Chairman Xiao Gang, and Mayor Yang Xiong, all the leaders and guests, ladies and gentlemen, and all the friends,   Welcome to the trading floor of the SSE to witness the launch of the program of the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, and share the joy at this exciting moment.   Two years ago, senior managers of the SSE and Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEx) discussed the feasibility of stock trading on each other’s market by use of information technology means, and agreed on the framework in light of the principles of closed trading, settlement in RMB, respecting trading habits of investors, and launch of pilot program based on risk control. This discussion marked the start for the development of the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect program. Later, the SSE completed a series of preparatory efforts such as project assessment, formulation of rules, technology development and market mobilization thanks to the careful guidance and strong support of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and the People's Bank of China.   Today, the result of the two years’ efforts comes out. As a participant and a witness, I am very much excited. Why could such a significant opening-up measure be smoothly introduced? I think the reasons behind it are the good timing, the geographical convenience and the wide support.   The 18th CPC National Congress put forward the major deployment on deepening reform and opening-up in all respects. The 3rd Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee specified the tasks of promoting the two-way opening-up of the capital market and the free convertibility of RMB capital accounts. Coincidently, the construction of the Shanghai Free Trade Zone (SFTZ) is also being propelled. All this gives a direction for the building of the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect program. This is what I call the good timing.   The SSE and HKEx have long kept close relationship with each other, with frequent visits at all levels. Besides, the two markets, sharing the same time zone, are familiar with and exert influences on each other’s rules, cultures, and habits. All this has formed a solid foundation for the cooperation in the program of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect. We are of the same origin and share the same ideas, with geographical convenience for mutual cooperation.   The Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, after being put forward, was highly noticed by the State Council and received strong support and guidance from relevant state departments and Shanghai municipality. It saw active responses from and participation of a wide range of institutions in the securities industry. The market participants agreed on the program and were eager to see the launch of the program. We’d like to extend our gratitude and respect to all of them as the successful launch of the program owes much to their support.   The Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect program, part of China’s opening-up strategy, is an upgraded version of the new round of high-level two-way opening-up of China’s capital market. The program also marks a key step of the SSE towards the goal of internationalization. However, such a little step cannot meet the requirements of the country and the people. We believe this move will trigger great possibilities. The SSE will build itself into a world-class exchange as it will continuously spare no efforts in moving forward on the correct road.   I wish the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect program could bring us fortune and opportunities, and connect our hearts for a brighter future.   Thank you!

Shanghai-HK Stock Connect Launched Smoothly
17 Nov 2014
The gong-striking for market opening on the morning of November 17 has its unique significance in the history. The resounding sound on the trading floor of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) symbolizes the connect of the securities markets in Shanghai and Hong Kong, and the entrance of China’s capital market into a new age for its opening-up to the outside world.   The Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect program was officially launched on November 17, when the SSE and Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEx) respectively held an opening ceremony. At the opening ceremony held by the SSE, Han Zheng, Member of the CPC Central Committee Political Bureau and Party Chief of Shanghai, Xiao Gang, Party Chief and Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), jointly struck the gong to open the market for the first trading day of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect. Xiao Gang, Yang Xiong, Mayor of Shanghai, and Gui Minjie, Chairman of the Governors of the SSE, delivered speeches at the ceremony. Huang Hongyuan, SSE President, and Charles Li, HKEx Chief Executive, respectively presided over the opening ceremonies in Shanghai and Hong Kong.   The first day of the program saw stable trading and enthusiastic investors. Shanghai Stock Connect and Hong Kong Stock Connect used a total line of RMB14.767 billion. To be specific, Shanghai Stock Connect touched the limit of RMB13 billion for a single day, while Hong Kong Stock Connect used RMB1.7673 billion, with RMB8.7327 billion remaining.   Xiao Gang: Three Benefits of Shanghai-HK Stock Connect   Xiao Gang pointed out in his speech that Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect is a significant mechanism innovation for the capital market, with great importance and profound influence. The launch of the program, required by the market and meeting the needs of investors, is an achievement thanks to the keen insights into the general situation, the daring sprit of making breakthroughs, and long-term sincere cooperation of the SSE and the HKEx. As China’s capital projects are not completely convertible, the program introduces an innovative cross-border securities investment mode featuring convenient operation and controllable risks.   Xiao added that, the program would enrich the trading products and improve the market structure, providing convenience and opportunities for both domestic and overseas investors to invest in A-shares and HKEx-listed shares. All this will first benefit the sharing of the economic development fruits of the two sides for investors, and promote the prosperous growth of the two markets. Secondly, it will benefit broadening the width and depth of the markets, strengthen Hong Kong’s position as an international financial center, and accelerate the construction of Shanghai international financial center, thus enhancing the overall strength of China’s capital market. Thirdly, it will benefit the acceleration of the RMB internationalization process, and improve the convertibility degree of cross-border capital and financial transactions.   Yang Xiong: Historical Opportunity Brought by Shanghai-HK Stock Connect   Yang Xiong said in the speech that, Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect is a significant part of opening-up of China’s capital market, which will be conducive to RMB internationalization, promote the growth of the capital markets of both China’s Mainland and Hong Kong, and strengthen the positions of international financial centers of Shanghai and Hong Kong, thus better serving the national strategy and the real economy.   According to Yang, China’s strategic positioning for Shanghai is building it into an international financial center, which is the aim of our relentless efforts. We should, with the guidance and support of the CSRC and other financial regulatory authorities of the state, take the historic opportunity of the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, further strengthen financial cooperation between Shanghai and Hong Kong, and constantly enhance the global competence and influence of Shanghai’s financial market. Besides, innovation should be propelled. Under the premise of controllable risks, launch of new products and businesses should be accelerated, a large number of new type institutions should be developed, and the width and depth of the market should be expanded. Moreover, we should improve the market environment, better the governmental services and administration, perfect the credit system, and attract financial talents, in a bid to build a more globalized, marketized and legalized environment for business operation. We will, as always, strongly support the reform and development of institutions in the Shanghai financial market including the SSE, with an aim to upgrade the building of Shanghai into an international financial center.   Gui Minjie: Shanghai-HK Stock Connect Bound to Succeed   Gui said that the smooth opening of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect owes to the good timing, the geographical convenience and the wide support. The 18th CPC National Congress put forward the major deployment on deepening reform and opening-up in all respects. The 3rd Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee specified the tasks of promoting the two-way opening-up of the capital market and the free convertibility of RMB capital accounts. Coincidently, the construction of the Shanghai Free Trade Zone is also being propelled. All this gives a direction for the building of the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect program. This is the good timing. Secondly, the geographical convenience. The SSE and HKEx have long kept close relationship with each other. Besides, the two markets, sharing the same time zone, are familiar with and exert influences on each other’s rules, cultures, and habits. All this has formed a solid foundation for the cooperation in the program of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect. Thirdly, the wide support. The program, after putting forward, was highly noticed by the State Council and received strong support and guidance from relevant sides. Gui said that the program, part of China’s opening-up strategy, is an upgraded version of the new round of high-level two-way opening-up of China’s capital market. It also marks a key step of the SSE towards the goal of internationalization. He believed that the SSE will build itself into a world-class exchange as it will continuously spare no efforts in moving forward on the correct road.   Witnessed by all the guests, Han Zheng and Xiao Gang struck the opening gong to declare the official launch of the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect program.   Also witnessing the historical moment are officials and guests from the Finance and Economic Committee of the National People's Congress, the General Office of the State Council, the National Development and Reform Commission, the People's Bank of China, the State Administration of Taxation, the China Banking Regulatory Commission, the China Insurance Regulatory Commission, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, and other relevant ministries and commissions of the State Council, as well as the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong, the HKEx, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd., the Shanghai Municipal Government, the CSRC system, market institutions, and news media.   Smooth Operation on the 1st day of Shanghai-HK Stock Connect Program   As of 10:00 a.m. in the morning session, RMB7.194 billion stocks through Shanghai Stock Connect had been bought and no stocks sold, with the used line of about RMB7.194 billion and the remaining line of RMB4.806 billion. Meanwhile, RMB854 million stocks through Hong Kong Stock Connect had been bought and RMB11 million stocks sold, with RMB781 million used and RMB9.719 billion remaining.   As of 16:00 p.m., the SSE Composite Index was at 2,474.01, down by 0.19%, and the trading amount was RMB199.265 billion; the Shanghai-HK Stock Connect index was at 2,152.85, down by 0.23%.   RMB12.082 billion stocks through Shanghai Stock Connect had been bought and no stocks sold; buy orders without transactions but not canceled amounted to RMB918 million; the total used line was RMB13 billion with no remaining line, touching the limit for a single day.   HK$2.238 billion (RMB1.773 billion) stocks through Hong Kong Stock Connect had been bought and HK$106 million (RMB84 million) stocks sold, with the used line of RMB1.7673 billion and the remaining line of RMB8.7327 billion.   The smooth operation on the 1st day of the program has paved a solid foundation for continuously propelling the two-way opening-up of China’s capital market in the future. The launch of the program is a start instead of the end. The SSE will spare no efforts to ensure the smooth operation of the program, and provide a more regulated and market-oriented investment environment for investors to better protect their interests.  

Shanghai-HK Stock Connect Pilot Program Launched
17 Nov 2014
On November 17, the opening ceremony for the pilot program of the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect is held both in Shanghai and Hong Kong. Han Zheng, Member of the CPC Central Committee Political Bureau and Party Chief of Shanghai, attended the ceremony in Shanghai. Xiao Gang, Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), Yang Xiong, Mayor of Shanghai, and Gui Minjie, Chairman of the Governors of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), delivered speeches.   Also attending the ceremony in Shanghai were Yao Gang, CSRC Vice Chairman, Wu Lijun, Chairman of the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, and heads of relevant ministries and commissions of the State Council, relevant departments of the National People's Congress and Shanghai Municipal Government, as well as representatives of the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEx), the securities and futures regulatory systems and market institutions. Liu Xinhua, CSRC Vice Chairman, attended the opening ceremony held in Hong Kong.     Han Zheng and Xiao Gang strike the opening gong.

Opening Info on 1st Day of Running Shanghai-HK Stock Connect
17 Nov 2014
As of 10:00 a.m. on November 17, RMB7.194 billion stocks through Shanghai Stock Connect had been bought and no stocks sold, with the used line of about RMB7.194 billion and the remaining line of RMB4.806 billion. Meanwhile, RMB854 million stocks through Hong Kong Stock Connect had been bought and RMB11 million stocks sold, with the used line of about RMB781 million and the remaining line of RMB9.719 billion.   The first order through Shanghai Stock Connect made a transaction of 32,700 shares, or RMB850,200, of Inner Mongolia Yili Industrial Group Co., Ltd. (600887.SH), while that through Hong Kong Stock Connect 8,000 shares, or RMB1.136 million, of Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited (00001.HK).

Speech by Xiao at Opening Ceremony for Shanghai-HK Stock Connect
17 Nov 2014
Today, we get together to witness the moment for launch of the pilot program of the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect. This program, with a view to implementing the decisions of the 3rd Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee and the “Some Opinions of the State Council on Further Propelling Sound Growth of the Capital Market”, is a significant move for promoting the two-way opening-up of the capital markets of China’s Mainland and Hong Kong, as well as a major system innovation of China’s capital market. The launch of the program, required by the market and meeting the needs of investors, is an achievement thanks to the keen insights into the general situation, the daring sprit of making breakthroughs, and long-term sincere cooperation of the Shanghai Stock Exchange and Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEx). As China’s capital accounts are not completely convertible, the program introduces an innovative cross-border securities investment mode featuring convenient operation and controllable risks.   The Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect program bears great significance and profound influence. It enriches the trading products and improves the market structure, providing convenience and opportunities for both domestic and overseas investors to invest in A shares and HKEx-listed shares. All this will facilitate the sharing of the economic development fruits of the two sides for investors, and promote the prosperous growth of the two markets. Besides, it will help broaden the width and depth of the markets, strengthen Hong Kong’s position as an international financial center, and accelerate the construction of Shanghai international financial center, thus enhancing the overall strength of China’s capital market. Moreover, it is conducive to the acceleration of the RMB internationalization process, and will improve the convertibility degree of cross-border capital and financial transactions.   At present, China's capital market has met the rare historical opportunity in its development. We should promote reform and development by opening-up, and gradually improve the multi-tiered capital market system, in a bid to build the capital market into a strong support for the upgrading of China's economy, a wider platform for business start-up and public innovation, and a key carrier for realizing our China dream.   As a regulatory body for the securities and futures market, we will work closely with the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong to strengthen cross-border law enforcement, and strictly crack down on illegal activities, so as to ensure the steady operation of the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect program, keep the market fair, open, and impartial, and protect the legal rights and interests of investors. Besides, the exchanges and depository and clearing institutions of China’s Mainland and Hong Kong will be asked to perform their duties according to law, and organize all market participants to orderly carry out the businesses under the program. Securities and fund institutions will be required to obey the management rules for the program, strengthen internal control, guard against financial risks, do a better job in education and services for investors, and protect legal rights and interests of investors. Investors should fully understand the differences in the trading and settlement systems of China’s Mainland and Hong Kong, prudently assess the market risks, and rationally invest in the program.   At the moment of the official launch of the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect program, I’d like to extend my special appreciation to the officials and guests who attend the opening ceremony today, especially officials and staff members of the stock exchanges and the settlement institutions of Shanghai and Hong Kong, as well as all those who have prepared for the program. Without your wisdom and hard efforts, and without the supports from all walks of life, we can’t make this market innovation happen today.   I wish a smooth operation and a complete success for the launch of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect program!   Thanks!

SHSECM Sets Sail for Two-way Opening-up of China’s Capital Market
11 Nov 2014
On November 10, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) announced that the pilot program of the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Exchanges Connectivity Mechanism (SHSECM) will be launched on November 17. On the same day, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) released the notice of the launch of the SHSECM pilot program, the notice of strengthening the information disclosure work of SSE-listed companies involved in the SHSECM business and relevant issues, and the notice of releasing the “Implementation Guide to Participation of Hong Kong Securities Clearing Company Ltd. (HKSCC) in Online Voting of Listed Companies Involved in Program of Buying and Selling Stocks of SSE-listed Companies”; besides, China Investment Information Services Ltd. (CIIS), as the securities trading service company (a SPV company for the program of buying and selling shares listed on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Ltd. [SEHK]) established by the SSE, issued the list of the first batch of securities companies participating in the business of the SEHK-listed shares tradable for investors in China’s Mainland (the “Gang’gutong” shares), the list of the “Gang’gutong” shares, the arrangement for the trading days in 2014 for the “Gang’gutong” shares, and the notice on collecting the routing service charge for the orders of the “Gang’gutong” shares.   According to the unified arrangement, the process test for the trading system of the “Gang’gutong” shares will be conducted on November 15. CIIS has designated the SSE’s website (www.sse.com.cn) to release the arrangement for the trading days of the “Gang’gutong” shares, the list of the underlying “Gang’gutong” shares, the list of the securities companies participating in the business of the “Gang’gutong” shares and other information, which market participants can have access to in the SHSECM business column on the SSE’s website.   In the early period of the pilot program, the total-volume management will be implemented for the amounts of RMB cross-border investment, with the total line of the “Gang’gutong” shares up to RMB250 billion and the daily line being RMB10.5 billion; the total amount of the program of buying and selling stocks of SSE-listed companies will be RMB300 billion, with its daily line being RMB13 billion. The first batch of 89 SSE members will participate in the business of the 268 “Gang’gutong” shares.   To support the cross-border settlement business for the SHSECM, China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd. (CSDC) and Hong Kong Securities Clearing Company Ltd. (HKSCC) have jointly set up the business linkage between China’s Mainland and Hong Kong, and established the effective risk management mechanism so as to provide efficient, convenient and safe settlement services for investors in China’s Mainland and Hong Kong participating in the SHSECM.   SSE Chairman of the Governors Gui Minjie says that the launch of the SHSECM is an important attempt for the SSE to promote the RMB internationalization and the two-way opening-up of the capital market, as well as a significant milestone in the course of the SSE pushing forward the internationalization strategy. “The introduction of the SHSECM is a starting point instead of an end point. The SHSECM mechanism will be gradually improved in the practice, as deficiencies will appear when the SSE tries to adapt to the international market. Therefore, the SSE will continue to better its work and strengthen internal management so as to catch up with the top international exchanges,” says Gui.   SSE President Huang Hongyuan says that the SHSECM is the result of sincere cooperation between the SSE and the SEHK under the guidance of the regulators in China’s Mainland and Hong Kong, embodying the wisdom and great efforts of the two sides and kicking off the efforts of the SSE in deepening the internationalization strategy. The original systematical design of the SHSECM has opened a chapter for the two-way opening-up of China’s capital market. The SSE will continue to make every effective effort before the launch of the SHSECM and focus on avoiding and defusing potential market risks, so as to ensure the smooth introduction and steady operation of the SHSECM.   The SHSECM is a mechanism for the connectivity of stocks trading between the SSE and the SEHK. Through the mechanism, the investors in China’s Mainland and Hong Kong can buy and sell the stocks listed on each other’s exchange through the securities companies in their local markets.   The arrangement for the trading days in 2014 of buying and selling the “Gang’gutong” shares has been announced with the 268 underlying “Gang’gutong” shares.   Today the SSE releases the arrangement for the trading days in 2014 of the “Gang’gutong” shares and the list of the “Gang’gutong” shares. The SHSECM will only be opened on the trading days of both Shanghai and Hong Kong when meeting the arrangement for settlement. It is noteworthy that in less than 2 months this year, in addition to the market closure on the two-day weekends that is implemented on both the A shares and “Gang’gutong” shares, trading of the “Gang’gutong” shares will not be opened during the Christmas period, including the afternoon of December 24 (Wednesday), whole day of December 25 (Thursday), and whole day of December 26 (Friday). Whether the service for trading of the “Gang’gutong” shares will be provided during the 2015 New Year’s Day holidays from December 29 (Monday) to December 31 (Wednesday) will be separately announced after the CSRC finalizes the arrangement for the holidays and market closure in 2015.   Multiple parties have made concerted efforts in the last two years.   The widely concerned SHSECM will finally set sail soon. It will be a historic moment for China's capital market on November 17.   From the day on, the two-way investment in Shanghai and Hong Kong will enter a new era with not only the convenience of cross-border investment significantly improved but more importantly the "glass door" for the investment market broken, as the dividends for the systematical transformation in the two sides’ markets and the achievements of the economic transformation and development will be shared.   The background for the introduction of the idea of the SHSECM is closely related to China’s economic development and financial situation. The 18th CPC National Congress has made it clear to “steadily promote the market-oriented reform for interest rate and exchange rate and gradually realize convertibility of RMB capital items", while the 3rd plenary session of the18th CPC Central Committee clearly proposed to “promote the two-way opening-up of the capital market and improve the convertibility of cross-border capital and financial transaction in an orderly way”.   In this context, the SSE has made in-depth analysis in facilitating the investment activities of investors in China’s Mainland and Hong Kong, promoting the two-way opening-up of the capital market, and making use of and serving the RMB internationalization, hitting it off with the management of the SEHK. The two sides discussed the feasibility of using information technology means to achieve the connectivity of the trading of the stocks on the two sides’ markets, and agreed on the framework for the principles for the closed trading operation, trade settlement in RMB, respecting trading habits of investors, and launching the pilot on the basis of controlling risks. The discussions made a start for the development of the SHSECM.   On April 10, 2014, the CSRC and the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) of Hong Kong jointly released the announcement to approve in principle the pilot program of the SHSECM. Thereafter, the SSE and CSDC, under the unified leadership and deployment of the CSRC, established and improved the working mechanism, set up the leading group and specialized groups for the SHSECM business lines, and formulated the “plan for promoting the preparation for the introduction of the SHSECM”, effectively pushing forward the preparations for the SHSECM in all aspects such as business programs, rules and agreements, industry preparation, supervision and risk control, investor education and overseas promotion, publicity, operation management, emergency plans, and technological development and tests.   During the process, the CSRC issued the “Some Regulations on Pilot Program of SHSECM”, and the SSE successively issued the relevant business rules and operational guidelines such as the “SSE Measures for Pilot Program of SHSECM” and the “SSE Guidance of Investor Suitability Management for Buying and Selling Stocks of SEHK-listed Companies”. On September 4, the SSE, the SEHK, CSDC, and HKSCC signed the “Four-party Agreement” on the SHSECM in Shanghai. In addition, the two exchanges and two clearing companies in Shanghai and Hong Kong have organized the market tests and exercises for many times, carrying out the activities of investor education and news publicity at multiple levels in an all-round way.   During the two-year process of planning and preparation, under the direct leadership and coordination and arrangement of the CSRC and with the strong support of the People's Bank of China and the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council, the SSE has completed a series of preparatory efforts such as project assessment, formulation of rules, technology development, and market mobilization. In addition, the SHSECM has been vigorously supported by the Ministry of Finance, the State Administration of Taxation, and the Legal Affairs Office of the State Council and other departments. Providing the strong support for the SHSECM were also the Shanghai Municipal Government, Financial Services and the Treasury Bureau of the Government of Hong Kong SAR, the SFC, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and other departments.   The SHSECM: the first train for A shares to go global   The launch of the SHSECM will not only elevate the statuses of Shanghai and Hong Kong as international financial centers, but also bring about more profound enlightenments and impacts to the market.   Wu Qiaoqiu, Head of Finance and Securities Research Office of Renmin University of China, holds that the SHSECM contributes to propelling internationalization of RMB and supporting Hong Kong to develop into an offshore RMB business center. Thanks to the SHSECM, domestic investors will directly use RMB to invest in the Hong Kong market, another investment channel will be added for overseas RMB capital, and orderly flow of RMB in China’s Mainland and Hong Kong will be facilitated. Besides, the SHSECM, conducive to boosting the RMB internationalization and the convertibility of RMB capital items, is a breakthrough for China’s capital market.   Hu Yuyue, Head of Securities and Futures Research Office of Beijing Technology and Business University, says that the SHSECM will facilitate the financial reform and opening-up of China, fuel the two-way flow in China’s capital market, and vitalize the market. It was seen that on the day when the SHSECM was announced, the SSE Composite Index went up to 2,146 from 2,098, with an increase of over 1.38%; the increasing trend has lasted up to now, and the SSE Composite Index has increased by 14% within 6 months.   Cao Fengqi, Chief of Finance and Securities Research Center of Peking University, and Hua Sheng, Honorary Dean of School of Economics and Management of Southeast University, say that the SHSECM will contribute to building the multi-layer capital market and the blue-chip market. The SSE, the exchange where most of the best enterprises in China have been listed, has committed to building a world-class exchange with blue chips clustered. The SEHK, the exchange boasting its high internationalization, has clustered a great number of international institutional investors and served as a major exchange for overseas listing of domestic enterprises. The SHSECM provides a road to the overseas stock market in a short time. Similarly, the SSE will “build” a stock market in Hong Kong: 268 quality blue chips will be added, and about 2 million investors (including a lot of world-class institutional investors) in Hong Kong will be available, which will help to change the investor structure of the A-share market, usher in overseas well-known institutional investors and funds, and enhance the vitality of the A-share blue chip market. Thus, the SHSECM is a positive try to jointly enhance the influence of China’s capital market in the world.   Lin Caiyi, Chief Economist of Guotai Jun’an Securities, says that the SHSECM will consolidate the statuses of Shanghai and Hong Kong as international financial centers. Furthermore, it will help to increase attractiveness of the two markets in Shanghai and Hong Kong for international investors, improve the investor structure in the Shanghai market, and further boost the building of Shanghai’s international financial center. And it will help Hong Kong to develop itself into an important overseas investment market for investors in China’s Mainland and to consolidate and elevate its status as an international financial center.   The systematical design of the SHSECM provides an enlightenment to innovation for the convenience of investors. The innovative system does not change the existing laws and regulations as well as regulatory system, nor does it change the organizational structure of the securities market, with the two clearing authorities in China’s Mainland and Hong Kong both involved and the clearing risks in the two markets separated as well. Investors will continue to use their existing securities accounts, brokers, and clearing services, instead of changing their trading habits and increasing their trading costs. The SHSECM will provide safe, high-efficient, and convenient services for overseas investors investing in the A-share market and domestic investors investing in the Hong Kong stock market.   Attractions for Investors, New Opportunities for Securities Dealers   The SHSECM has attracted attentions from both institutional and individual investors.   How to use the SHSECM will become the “starting point for us in designing products”, according to China Asset Management Co., Ltd. It is learnt that the company has designed ETF for Hang Seng Index of the SHSECM, which, based on the advantages in terms of system and efficiency of the SHSECM, is expected to boast better operational efficiency than present cross-boarder ETFs. Product application has been submitted to the CSRC.   E Fund Management Co., Ltd. says that, the company is thinking about developing fund products for trading such as split-capital funds specially oriented for the SHSECM. Besides, the company is also considering changing transaction methods of the E Fund ETF for Hang Seng H shares managed by the company, because of the overlap between the SEHK-listed shares invested by this ETF and the presently announced underlyings available for investment. “This means investment through the SHSECM for some of the shares will enjoy more efficiency and save more costs than through the QDII channel according to the present calculation,” according to the company.   Individual investor Mr. Qi says that he places high expectations on the investment opportunities for the SEHK-listed shares. The SHSECM provides a great platform and investment channel. Presently, he has preliminarily selected some SEHK-listed shares, which, he hopes, will supplement the A shares. “Now, I have more underlying choices in industries such as TMT and medical care,” says Qi.   Mr. Pan, another individual investor now investing in SEHK-listed shares, says that, before the SHSECM is launched, he has to open accounts at the Hong Kong branches of domestic securities dealers to invest in the SEHK-listed shares. Besides, his limited sum of capital for investing in these shares mainly came from the exchange on his own and with the help of his family members, which was very inconvenient. For all this, “I think the SHSECM will bring great convenience to investment in SEHK-listed shares,” tolds Pan.   Besides, securities dealers are also going all out to prepare for the new opportunities coming with the SHSECM.   According to Xia Zeyan, Director of the Executive Office of the Brokerage Business Committee of Guotai Jun’an Securities Co., Ltd., the company has independently developed its counter system and Fuyi trading system for the “Gang’gutong” shares, in a bid to ensure the smooth launch of the “Gang’gutong” shares business. Besides, the company has held an array of educational activities for investors of the “Gang’gutong” shares for its potential target clients, introducing basic rules and characteristics of the “Gang’gutong” shares business, as well as the research service system of the company, in order to provide supports and services for its clients’ investment in the Hong Kong market.   All sides of the market are expecting the opening day of the SHSECM.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

CSRC, SFC Approves Launch of SHSECM Pilot Program
10 Nov 2014
The China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) of Hong Kong have released a joint announcement that the launch of the pilot program of the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Exchanges Connectivity Mechanism (SHSECM) is approved, and the SHSECM will be opened on November 17. For details, please refer to the website and micro-blog of the CSRC.   The link of the joint announcement: http://www.csrc.gov.cn/pub/newsite/zjhxwfb/xwdd/201411/t20141110_263132.html

Notice of Launch of SHSECM Pilot Program
10 Nov 2014
All Market Participants,   According to the “Joint Announcement of the China Securities Regulatory Commission and the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong” released on November 10, 2014, the pilot program of the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Exchanges Connectivity Mechanism (SHSECM) will be launched on November 17, 2014. Arrangements for relevant issues are hereby announced as follows:   I. China Investment Information Services Ltd. (CIIS) affiliated to the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), as the securities trading service company of the SSE, will provide services for investors in China’s Mainland to buy and sell SEHK-listed shares (the “Gang’gutong” shares for short; SEHK: the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Ltd.).   II. CIIS will designate the SSE’s website (www.sse.com.cn) for releasing information including the arrangement of trading date for buying and selling the “Gang’gutong” shares, as well as the list of the “Gang’gutong” shares, and the list of securities companies participating in this business. Market participants could search for relevant information in the SHSECM business column on the SSE’s website.   III. Adding shares to or deleting shares from the list of the “Gang’gutong” shares as stipulated in Articles 58 and 59 of the “SSE Measures for Pilot Program of SHSECM” (the “Measures”) will be carried out after market closure on the first Friday of each month, and it will take effect on the next day for trading of the “Gang’gutong” shares, except for immediate adding or deleting of shares in cases such as termination of shares listing.   The entry-into-force time after adding relevant shares to or deleting relevant shares from the list of the “Gang’gutong” shares is subject to the time announced by CIIS.   IV. According to the “Joint Announcement of the China Securities Regulatory Commission and the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong” released on April 10, 2014, the total line of the program of buying and selling stocks of SEHK-listed companies is RMB250 billion, with its daily line being RMB10.5 billion. The total amount of the program of buying and selling stocks of SSE-listed companies will be RMB300 billion, with its daily line being RMB13 billion.   V. Shares in companies listed on the SEHK having implemented but not completed splitting and consolidation of equity, or applying for splitting and consolidation of equity during the period from the day when the SHSECM is launched to November 30, 2014 will not be included into the list of the “Gang’gutong” shares on the launch day of the SHSECM. If the shares meet relevant regulations after the relevant companies complete splitting and consolidation of relevant equity, they will be added into the list of the “Gang’gutong” shares.   VI. The SSE may not include shares in SEHK-listed companies that do not allow investors of the “Gang’gutong” shares to participate in stock supply or public allotment as stipulated in Clause II of Article 119 of the “Measures” into the list of the “Gang’gutong” shares, or delete them from the list.   VII. The SSE will not charge its members temporarily for the fee of data flow of participant business units (PBUs) in participation in the “Gang’gutong” shares business.   Shanghai Stock Exchange November 10, 2014

Notice of Strengthening Information Disclosure Work of SSE-listed Companies Involved in SHSECM Business and Relevant Issues
10 Nov 2014
All relevant listed companies,   According to the “SSE Measures for Pilot Program of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Exchanges Connectivity Mechanism (SHSECM)”, constituents of SSE 180 Index, constituents of SSE 380 Index, A shares issued by companies listed in both Shanghai and Hong Kong (the “A + H shares” Companies for short) on the SSE, (excluding shares with the tokens of ST and *ST, shares under delisting arrangement, and B shares, etc.) are in principle taken as shares for the program of buying and selling stocks of SSE-listed companies (the “Hugutong” Shares for short). It hereby notifies issues about the information disclosure work of the issuers (the “Hugutong” Companies for short) of the shares involved in the program of buying and selling stocks of SSE-listed companies to ensure the smooth implementation of the SHSECM business and protect legitimate rights and interests of domestic and overseas investors as follows:   I. The “Hugutong” Companies should pay attention to changes and influences brought about by the opening of the SHSECM business, after which overseas investors will become their shareholders by trading the “Hugutong” Shares according to laws. The “Hugutong” Companies will face an array of new situations in terms of information disclosure mode and requirement, holding of shareholders’ meeting, exercising of shareholders’ rights, and investor relation management after their shareholder structures change. Thus, the “Hugutong” Companies should attach importance to and adapt themselves to changes of external environments, further standardize information disclosure, and cement the investor relation management.   II. The “Hugutong” Companies and relevant liable persons of information disclosure should simultaneously and publicly disclose significant information to all domestic and overseas investors to ensure that all investors could equally get information, instead of disclosing or leaking to a single investor or some investors.   III. The “Hugutong” Companies should fully guarantee rights of domestic and overseas investors such as the right of decision-making and that of profit distribution according to relevant laws and regulations including the “Company Law” as well as the "Articles of Association".   IV. While holding shareholders’ meetings, the “Hugutong” Companies should consider the convenience of domestic and overseas investors’ being present, provide access to online voting for them when on-spot shareholders’ meetings are held, and specify modes of shareholders’ online voting and other relevant issues.   V. The “Hugutong” Companies should timely pay attention to reports about them which are made by domestic and overseas media, promptly verify relevant circumstances, and strictly fulfill the obligation of information disclosure and ensure authenticity, accuracy, completeness, timeliness and fairness.   VI. The “Hugutong” Companies should stress on investor relation management, fully consider the particularity of different locations of overseas investors, talk with investors on the SSE’s “E-interaction” platform, at the shareholders’ meetings, analysts’ meetings, briefings for investors, briefings of business performance, and through other channels, and timely give replies to investors’ concerns.   VII. Upon designation by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the outward website (www.sse.com.cn) of the SSE has become the designated website for information disclosure of the “Hugutong” Companies. After the opening of the SHSECM business, the “Hugutong” Companies, while disclosing information on the outward website of SSE, should continue to disclose relevant information on the designated media and websites for information disclosure according to current regulations. The day of information disclosure is subject to the day when information is disclosed on the designated media, excluding the information disclosure made according to the following Item VIII in this Notice.   VIII. After the opening of the SHSECM business, the “Hugutong” Companies could submit temporary announcements that need to be released to the market in time through the SSE’s “Direct Channel for Information Disclosure” before opening in the morning of the trading day, and from closing in the morning of the trading day to opening in the afternoon of the trading day, and disclose on the above-mentioned outward website and websites of the designated media for information disclosure. Scope of the temporary announcements, time and requirements for information disclosure, and other issues are subject to the SSE’s further stipulations.   IX. The “Hugutong” Companies should pay attention to the SHSECM business column on the SSE’s website and know adjustments to the “Hugutong” Shares and other circumstances in time.   X. Among the “Hugutong” Companies, the “A + H shares” Companies could apply for trading suspension to the SSE if any significant event occurs in trading hours and fails to be disclosed in time; the SSE, in light of circumstances, could directly impose trading suspension, and the “A + H shares” Companies should promptly cooperate to release relevant announcements. If the above trading suspension occurs, the SSE and the exchange where H shares are listed will simultaneously impose trading suspension on shares and derivatives in the relevant companies.   XI. This Notice shall come into force on the day when the SHSECM Pilot Program is launched.   Shanghai Stock Exchange November 10, 2014

Notice of Releasing “Implementation Guide to Participation of HKSCC in Online Voting of Listed Companies Involved in Program of Buying and Selling Stocks of SSE-listed Companies”
10 Nov 2014
All market participants,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the “Implementation Guide to Participation of Hong Kong Securities Clearing Company Ltd. (HKSCC) in Online Voting of Listing Companies Involved in Program of Buying and Selling Stocks of SSE-listed Companies” (the “Guide” for short) according to the "Rules on Shareholders' Meeting of Listed Companies" of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the “SSE Measures for Pilot Program of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Exchanges Connectivity Mechanism (SHSECM)”, the “SSE Detailed Rules for Online Voting at Shareholders’ Meetings of Listed Companies”, and other relevant regulations, in a bid to standardize nominal share holders’ participation in online voting of listed companies involved in the program of buying and selling stocks of SSE-listed companies. The “Guide” is hereby released and shall come into force on the day when the SHSECM Pilot Program is launched.     Shanghai Stock Exchange November 10, 2014

SSE Studies, Implements Requirements in 4th Plenary Session of 18th CPC Central Committee
07 Nov 2014
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) recently holds an outreach meeting for the leading group of the SSE CPC Committee to study and implement the requirements put forward at the 4th Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee (the “4th Plenary Session” for short). The meeting analyzes and discusses how the SSE will implement the requirements at the “4th Plenary Session”, cement the legal construction of the market, and elevate the level of ruling the market according to laws.   The leading group of the SSE CPC Committee unanimously holds that the SSE should conscientiously adopt the principle of rule of law to study and propel all work items of the SSE. In light of the work items, the SSE will make efforts in the following aspects:   I. It will deeply understand the significance of boosting the campaign of ruling the country according to laws in an all-round way, which is a great decision made after summarizing the merits and lessons in the socialist legal construction of China, a key guarantee for building a moderately prosperous society and deepening reform and opening up in all respects, and a profound consideration for realizing Chinese nation's great rejuvenation and China’s Dream as well as the long-term stability of the CPC and the country.   II. It will do a better job in completing all work items in the principle of rule of law. The SSE will initiatively strengthen the awareness of rule of law, take the lead in learning laws, conscientiously use laws, and abide by laws as a model. Besides, efforts will be made to foster a thought of rule of law to fuel the market reform, boost the market innovation, and solve the market problems. Finally, the SSE will use laws on its own initiative to consolidate the foundation for the rule of law of the market and enhance the ability of ruling the market according to laws.   III. It will further improve the system of self-regulatory rules for the SSE market. Specifically, the SSE will further perfect the self-regulatory rules of the market, comprehensively plan the system of self-regulatory rules, and speed up the formulation of rules in major fields. It will also make more efforts to improve the formulation of self-regulatory rules, follow rules and adopt proper means, and attach importance to opinion solicitation and feedbacks. Furthermore, it will strengthen the comprehensive management of the formulation of rules, cement arrangement in a comprehensive way and coordination, and stress on the rectification and integration work.   IV. It will fulfill the duty of self-regulation in the principle of “being strict, standardized, fair and civilized”. The SSE will streamline the items for prior examination and registration, spare no efforts on in-process and aftermath regulation, standardize the operation of the self-regulatory power, perfect the mechanism of separation of investigation from trial for disciplinary penalty, and improve the review mechanism of regulatory decisions.   V. It will improve its self-governance in the aspect of rule of law. The SSE will take pains to promote the internal management and supervision for its standardized, high-efficient, orderly and honest operation. A batch of high-quality legal talents will be cultivated, and the ability of the SSE’s staffs in handling work according to laws will be enhanced as well.   Studying and implementing the requirements at the “4th Plenary Session” is a very important task at present. The SSE will continuously study the requirements in its practices and upgrade the level of ruling the market according to laws.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Launches Pilot Business of Private Placement Bonds for M&A, Reorganization
05 Nov 2014
Upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) recently releases the “SSE Notice of Relevant Issues of Launching Pilot Business of Private Placement Bonds for Mergers, Acquisitions and Reorganizations” (the “Notice” for short), in a bid to implement requirements in the “Opinions of the State Council on Further Optimizing Market Environment for Enterprises’ Mergers, Acquisitions and Reorganizations” and relevant documents and give full play to the positive role of the capital market in propelling enterprises’ mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations. The SSE’s move marks the official launch of the pilot work for private placement bonds for mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations. Capital source is one of the bottleneck problems in mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations of China’s enterprises, and the availability of private placement bonds for mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations will contribute to providing another way for financing of enterprises’ mergers and acquisitions, enhancing financing efficiency, boosting adjustments to China’s economic and industrial structures, and strengthening industrial concentration, thus fueling the growth of the real economy. Generally, private placement bonds for mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations inherits the institutional framework of the exchange market for private placement bonds and makes proper adjustments according to the characteristics of mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations. It is stipulated in the “Notice” that issuers of private placement bonds for mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations should be corporate-system legal persons, which do not include listed companies on the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange temporarily in the initial stage; non-public issuance should be adopted for private placement bonds for mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations, which should be issued and transferred to eligible institutional investors after being filed with the exchange; raised funds should be mainly used to support mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations, including but not limited to payments and loan reimbursement for mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations. An official of the SSE introduces that the SSE has built a set of service mechanisms for filing, transfer, and information disclosure of private placement bonds since the launch of SMEs private placement bonds in 2012; the private placement bonds for mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations will be handled according to relevant business procedures for private placement bonds. Next, the SSE will improve the market infrastructure, virtuously carry out product innovation for private placement bonds, and cement the investor protection mechanism, so as to further boost the steady growth of the exchange-traded bond market.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Soliciting Public Opinions on Amending Supporting Rules of “SSE Stock Listing Rules (with Delisting Part Revised in 2014)”
17 Oct 2014
　　SSE Announcement [2014] No. 11 Document   In order to implement the delisting system for listed companies and protect rights and interests of investors, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the draft for comments on delisting-related supporting rules, the remarks on amendment to the supporting rules and the check-list of revised provisions (see the attachments), according to the “Opinions on Reform, Improvement and Implementation of the Delisting System of Listed Companies” of the China Securities Regulatory Commission and the “SSE Stock Listing Rules (Revised in 2014)”. The SSE hereby solicits public opinions on the amendment.   Please send your opinions or suggestions to the SSE in written form or by e-mail before October 31, 2014.   Mailing address: SSE Department I of Listed Companies Supervision, Shanghai Stock Exchange Building, 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120   Fax: 021-68811782, E-mail: listing@sse.com.cn   　　 Shanghai Stock Exchange October 17, 2014

Notice of Releasing “SSE Stock Listing Rules (Revised in 2014)”
17 Oct 2014
All market participants,   In order to perfect the delisting system for listed companies, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has amended contents related to the delisting system in the “SSE Stock Listing Rules (Revised in 2013)” (the original “Listing Rules”), according to the “Opinions on Reform, Improvement and Implementation of the Delisting System of Listed Companies” of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). On this basis, the SSE has formulated the “SSE Stock Listing Rules (Revised in 2014)” (the new “Listing Rules”), which has been discussed and approved by the SSE’s Board of Governors and obtained approval from the CSRC. The SSE hereby releases the new “Listing Rules”, which will take effect on November 16, 2014, and the original “Listing Rules” will be abolished at the same time.   For smooth implementation of the new "Listing Rules", the SSE hereby announces the relevant arrangements for the issues concerning the application of the original and the new rules as follows:   First, the original "Listing Rules" will still be applicable to companies delisted before the new "Listing Rules" takes effect, if these companies apply for re-listing within 36 months since the new "Listing Rules" takes effect.   Second, the applicable standard for relevant content of “If a company conducts significant assets reorganization and changes actual controller before applying for re-listing, it will meet the conditions for back-door listing stipulated in the ‘Administrative Measures for Significant Asset Reorganization of Listed Companies’ of the CSRC.”, according to Item 5 of Clause I of Article 14.4.1 in the original "Listing Rules", is hereby specified as follows:   In case that the controlling right of the company is changed, since the day the change takes effect, if the total amount of assets purchased by the company from the buyer and the buyer’s related parties accounts for over 100% of the total amount of the end-of-period assets in the audited consolidated financial accounting report in the latest fiscal year before the change of the company’s controlling right, the corresponding business entity whose assets are purchased by the company should be a corporation limited or a company with limited liability.   Such issues as the business performance of the above-mentioned business entity should meet the conditions for back-door listing stipulated in the “Administrative Measures for Significant Asset Reorganization of Listed Companies” of the CSRC, with the calculation standard based on the time when the company applies for re-listing. If the business entity fails to be audited independently according to the "Accounting Standard for Business Enterprises" when the company applies for re-listing, the calculation standard will be based on the time when the business entity is injected into the company, and applicable to the back-door listing conditions stipulated in the “Administrative Measures for Significant Asset Reorganization of Listed Companies” of the CSRC at that time.   　 Shanghai Stock Exchange October 17, 2014

SSE Releases Revised “Stock Listing Rules”
17 Oct 2014
Today, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) releases the newly revised “SSE Stock Listing Rules" (the “Rules" for short). Previously, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) released the “Opinions on Reform, Improvement and Implementation of the Delisting System of Listed Companies” (the “Opinions” for short) on October 17, 2014. The SSE has revised and perfected contents about the delisting system in the “Rules", in a bid to implement relevant systematical arrangements mentioned in the “Opinions”. The revised “Rules" will be implemented on November 16, 2014.   Key points and highlights in the revisions: voluntary delisting, and compulsory delisting caused by severe illegal acts   According to an official of the SSE, the key points and highlights in the revisions are as follows: first, the voluntary delisting system for listed companies is perfected, and any market participant’s delisting decision made in the principle of its autonomy of will is fully respected and protected, which provides the foundation and space for building a flexible delisting system; second, the system of compulsory delisting for listed companies with severe illegal acts is added. Fraud issuance, illegal disclosure of listed companies’ significant information, and other severe illegal acts, which are strongly protested by the market and investors, are defined as situations applicable to compulsory delisting. Besides, the requirements on suspension and termination of listing are specified as well.   Relevant bodies’ shareholding lessening behaviors are limited to prevent them from dodging relevant legal liability.   To prevent any body relating to a company suspected of severe illegal acts from dodging relevant legal liability by shareholding lessening in the secondary market after being put on file for investigation, a regulation on limiting shareholding lessening of anybody relating to a company suspected of severe illegal acts is added in the revised “Rules". It is required in the revised “Rules" that relevant liable body should abide by its public promise and suspend transfer of equity held by it after being put on file for investigation by the CSRC and before a conclusion for the case investigation is made; besides, a procedure has been specified to ensure that the liable body, when assuming its liability, has enough properties to compensate the harmed investors, thus protecting the legal rights and interests of the investors.   The protection of legal rights and interests of small and medium-sized investors is a theme embodied in all aspects of the delisting system reform. The protection of investors, especially the legal rights and interests of small and medium-sized investors, is the theme of the delisting system reform. To protect investors, all aspects of the delisting system are carefully designed in the revised “Rules", with details as follows:   I. The revised “Rules" strengthens the internal decision-making procedures of companies which want to carry out voluntary delisting. To prevent malicious delisting, which could damage the rights and interests of small and medium-sized shareholders, and to reduce carelessness of voluntary delisting, it is required in the revised “Rules" that any resolution of Shareholders’ Meeting on voluntary delisting should be agreed by no less than 2/3 of all shareholders present at the meeting and no less than 2/3 of small and medium-sized shareholders present at the meeting.   II. It promotes the protection mechanism for dissident shareholders and civil compensation. It is clearly defined in the revised “Rules" that companies which want to carry out voluntary delisting should make special arrangements for dissident shareholders of the resolution on delisting. For companies with severe illegal acts, relevant liable bodies are required to initiatively compensate losses of investors according to relevant regulations or promises.   III. It establishes a special mechanism for re-listing of companies with illegal disclosure of significant information. By taking into consideration of interests of small and medium-sized investors, it is prescribed in the revised “Rules" that any company with listing suspension due to illegal disclosure of significant information could submit a re-listing application to the SSE if it has made overall corrections, replaced related responsible persons, and made proper arrangements of civil compensations before the SSE makes a decision of listing termination.   IV. It cements risk disclosure before delisting of listed companies. According to the revised “Rules", if a listed company’s directorate predicts a possible situation of compulsory listing termination, it should timely put forward a contingency plan for removing relevant risks and disclose the plan to the public; according to major time points for compulsory delisting of companies with severe illegal acts, the “Rules" makes clear stipulations on listed companies’ obligation of information disclosure, involving time points for information disclosure, requirements for an announcement’s content, procedures for trading suspension and resumption, and special requirements for risk alerts to investors.   Conditions for re-listing are adjusted, after which relevant requirements for major financial indicators are as the same as those for IPO. Re-listing of delisted companies, an important supporting systematical arrangement, is a key method to dredge the delisting channel and release the delisting pressure. According to an official of the SSE, the 2012 delisting system reform developed re-listing conditions according to a standard that is higher than that for back-door listing yet lower than that for IPO, providing a relatively easy way for delisted companies to return to the exchange-traded markets.   The above-mentioned standard represented an intention to protect investors’ interests in the market situation at that time. However, the market worried that the re-listing conditions, which are lower than those for IPO, could trigger malicious or careless delisting, leading to regulatory arbitrage, and imposing negative effects on the capital market development and the protection of small and medium-sized investors. Given the fact that conditions for building a transfer mechanism among various markets are now available in China, and there are increasing ways to protect investors’ interests, the revised “Rules" made adjustment to the re-listing conditions, requiring that the major indicators for re-listing should be equivalent to those for IPO.   In addition, to stabilize the previous market expectations of investors, in the principle of anti-retroactivity, the SSE specifies in the notice of releasing the revised “Rules" that a line is drawn between the present and the past for application of the conditions for re-listing by offering a 36-month transition period to companies that have been already delisted before the revised “Rules" comes into effect. The re-listing conditions in the “Rules" will still be valid during the transition period. The revisions are made after fully soliciting opinions and suggestions from market participants.   The reform and improvement of the delisting system are very crucial. The SSE solicited suggestions on the revisions to the “Rules” from the public and securities regulatory bureaus in all regions on July 4, 2014, in a bid to better revise and perfect the delisting system and absorb insights of all market participants. Later, the SSE held a special symposium to collect opinions and suggestions of market participants including investors, listed companies, and intermediaries on the delisting system reform.   For the collected opinions, an official of the SSE introduces that most opinions accepted the systematical arrangements for the delisting system reform, and held that the reform showed a direction of marketization, legalization and normalization and would contribute to further giving full play to the role of the market mechanism and further curbing and deterring serious illegal acts. Furthermore, for some articles related to implementation of the delisting system, reasonable opinions and suggestions are received, including investor relief, arrangement for voluntary delisting of companies issuing both A and B shares, operation of application for listing resumption, standard for recognizing overall corrections of illegal acts of companies with listing suspension and delisting, and transitional arrangement for delisted companies entering over-the-counter market. After the opinions were collected, the SSE absorbed the reasonable opinions and made relevant arrangements or adjustments in the revised “Rules".   The SSE will revise supporting rules about delisting as soon as possible.   An official of the SSE also says that after the release of the revised “Rules”, the SSE will revise delisting-related supporting rules such as the “SSE Measures on Re-listing of Delisted Companies”, the “SSE Detailed Rules on Business in Delisting Arrangement Period”, and the “SSE Provisional Regulations on Stock Trading on Risk Alert Board” as soon as possible according to the “Opinions” and the revised “Rules", and ensure timely implementation of all systematical arrangements. Today, the SSE publicly solicits opinions on the revisions to the delisting-related supporting rules.   　　

Q & A on Amendments to Drafts for Comments on Supporting Rules of Delisting System
17 Oct 2014
Recently, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) released the "Opinions on Reform, Improvement and Implementation of the Delisting System of Listed Companies" (the “Opinions”), and the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) also issued the “SSE Stock Listing Rules (Revised in 2014)” (the “Rules”). In accordance with the “Rules”, the SSE has amended to work out drafts for comments on supporting rules of the delisting system, including the Draft for Comments of “SSE Measures on Re-listing of Delisted Companies (Revised in 2014)” (the “Measures”), the Draft for Comments of “SSE Detailed Rules on Business in Delisting Arrangement Period (Revised in 2014)” (the “Detailed Rules”), and the Draft for Comments of “SSE Provisional Regulations on Stock Trading on Risk Alert Board (Revised in 2014)” (the “Provisional Regulations”). An SSE official has answered the questions on the revisions to the supporting rules of the delisting system.   Q1: What is the background of the revisions to the supporting rules of the delisting system? A: To improve the market mechanism of “Survival of the Fittest” and further promote the healthy development of the securities market, the CSRC has launched a new round of reform for the delisting system in response to the problems that still existed in the course of implementing the delisting system earlier, such as the incomplete provisions on the delisting situations, the supporting arrangements following the delisting yet to be improved, the inadequate protection for investors especially small and medium-sized investors, and the listed companies with severe illegal acts failing to exit the market which affects actual effects of implementing the delisting system. Recently, the CSRC issued the “Opinions” and the SSE released the “Rules”. The “Rules” sees the addition of the rules for the delisting system related to voluntary delisting and compulsory delisting of the companies with severe illegal acts, as well as the optimization and addition of the indicators for the market-based delisting, adequately adjusting conditions for re-listing and other issues.   The supporting rules for the “Rules” embodies the implementation of the “Rules”, mainly regulating relevant arrangements following delisting of listed companies, including arrangements for the trading before listing termination and arrangements for re-listing after terminating the listing, serving as an important guarantee for the smooth implementation of the delisting system and playing a significant role in safeguarding the interests of investors especially small and medium-sized investors. Therefore, according to the revisions to the “Rules” regarding the delisting system, it is necessary to make relevant revisions to the supporting rules for the “Rules”.   Q2: What specific rules are involved in the revision to the supporting rules for the “Rules”? What has been revised in the rules? A: The supporting rules for the “Rules” included in the revisions are the “Measures”, the “Detailed Rules”, and the “Provisional Regulations”, and the main revisions to the rules are as follows:   1. About the “Measures”   The newly added contents mainly involve three aspects: first, differentiated provisions have been made in the intervals for the delisted companies applying for re-listing on the basis of different delisting situations; second, thorough rectification on illegal acts has been set as the prerequisite for accepting the application for re-listing of the delisted companies with the two kinds of severe illegal acts of fraud issuance and illegal disclosure of important information; third, regarding the “error correction” for the delisting of the companies with serious violations, that is, resuming the listing position for the cancellation or change of identified serious violations, special chapters have been set to make relevant provisions.   2. About the “Detailed Rules”   With regard to whether shares in any compulsorily delisted company in the course of major asset reorganization can be put into delisting arrangement period for trading, it is stipulated that a choice should be made in the resolution of the shareholders' meeting so as to ensure the smooth delisting work.   3. About the “Provisional Regulations”   The provisions related to the suitability of the investors participating in the trading in the delisting arrangement period have been added.   Q3: Why have the differentiated provisions been made for the applications of the delisted companies with different situations for re-listing? In what aspects can the differentiation be found?   A: The various situations of delisting of the listed companies can be grouped into voluntary delisting, compulsory delisting according to the market trading indicators, compulsory delisting for serious violations, and other compulsory delisting situations. As there are significant differences for different delisting situations in intention of delisting, degree of violation, degree of the trouble for the company, and other aspects, considering the factors such as respecting and encouraging the listed companies in implementing voluntary delisting on the basis of their own reasonable demands and intentions and further increasing the costs for serious violations, it is necessary to make differentiated arrangements for re-listing of delisted companies.   The differentiated arrangements made by the SSE for the applications of the delisted companies with different situations for re-listing are mainly included in four aspects: first, the intervals are different for the applications of the delisted companies with different situations for relisting; second, for the applications of the delisted companies with serious violations for re-listing, thorough rectification on the violations has been set as the prerequisite for the SSE accepting the application; third, for the application of the companies of voluntary delisting for re-listing, some simplification has been made in application documents, review procedure, and other aspects; fourth, with regard to the situation of resuming the listing position for the delisted companies with serious violations for “error correction”, special provisions have been made in application documents, review procedure, trading arrangements after re-listing, and other aspects.   Q4: What provisions have been made in intervals for the delisted companies with different situations to apply for re-listing?   A: According to different delisting situations, the SSE has made the following differentiated provisions in intervals for the delisted companies applying for re-listing: first, the companies of voluntary delisting may submit the application for re-listing at any time after delisting of their stocks; second, the companies of compulsory delisting caused by market trading indicators shall have an interval of three months to re-apply for listing; third, the companies of compulsory delisting for the reasons other than fraud issuance and market trading indicators shall have an interval of 12 months for the application; fourth, the companies of compulsory delisting for fraud issuance shall have an interval of an entire fiscal year for the application.   Q5: Why are the conditions for the application of delisted companies with serious violations for re-listing added in the revisions? What are the specific provisions?   A: The compulsory delisting of listed companies with serious violations features extreme abruptness, harmful illegal behaviors, and grave circumstances, which seriously harm the interests of investors and the market development and are highly concerned by all market participants. In order to increase the costs for serious violations of listed companies, maintain a sound market environment, and protect legal rights and interests of investors, the revision has set the prerequisites for the SSE to accept the application of the delisted companies with serious violations for re-listing.   The most important part of the prerequisite for accepting the application of a delisted company with serious violations for re-listing is that the company has thoroughly corrected the violations. In order to make the standard of the prerequisite clearer, more objective, and more operable in practice, the SSE has set four specific conditions in detail for the “thorough correction”: first, the serious violations have been thoroughly rectified. For example, the company has released the supplementary or corrective announcement on the matters related to the fraud issuance and the serious violations in information disclosure, the company has completed the responsibility investigation for the fraud issuance and the serious violations in information disclosure, and the company-related risks possibly caused by the fraud issuance and the serious violations in information disclosure have been eliminated, etc.; second, the persons liable for the violations of the fraud issuance and the serious violations in information disclosure have been replaced, including the persons concerned convicted by the people's courts and the persons concerned with administrative penalties issued by the CSRC; third, proper arrangements have been made for bearing the compensation for relevant civil liabilities. For example, the rule of the people's courts related to the compensation-related matters has been implemented; with regard to the cases of reaching the settlement without any conviction, the implementation of the settlement agreement has been completed; fourth, the sponsor institution and lawyer hired by a company for re-listing have checked and verified the cases related to the above-mentioned three conditions, and have issued the special inspection opinions, clearly affirming that the company has fully complies with the above-mentioned three conditions.   Q6: Why have the simplified arrangements been made for the application of the voluntarily delisted companies for re-listing? What has been simplified?   A: In order to encourage voluntary delisting of listed companies, respect corporate autonomy and form the flexible market-oriented flow mechanism, the SSE has made adequate simplifications in the relevant application documents and the review procedures for the application of the companies of voluntary delisting for re-listing.   Specifically, first, in terms of the application documents, the companies of voluntary delisting can apply to the SSE for exemption from providing the relevant application documents that the companies think are inapplicable; second, regarding the review procedures, the SSE has shortened the time from the conventional 60 trading days to 30 trading days in making the decision on whether to approve the re-listing of the companies.   Q7: What is the situation of the “error correction” for the application of the companies delisted for serious violations for re-listing in the “Measures”? What are the specific provisions?   A: After the compulsory delisting of a listed company for a serious violation, the identification of the related situation of the serious violation is likely to be revoked or changed. If either of the following two situations takes place, the company may apply for re-listing accordingly, which is the situation of “error correction” in the re-listing, a special situation of re-listing. The two situations include: first, the decision of administrative penalty that has been made is revoked or confirmed invalid according to the law and the CSRC has not issued any administrative penalty for fraud issuance or serious violation for information disclosure, or the identification of the nature of the unlawful act is changed thoroughly and the decision of administrative penalty is changed according to the law; second, for the cases that have been transferred to public security organs, the public security organs decide not to register or to dismiss the case, or the People's Procuratorate makes the decision not to prosecute, or the People's Court issues the conviction of acquittal or exemption from criminal penalties, and the CSRC does not issue any administrative penalty for fraud issuance or serious violation for information disclosure.   Given that the original basis for the decision to terminate the listing has disappeared, the SSE will revoke the original decision to terminate the listing of the stocks of the company and arrange for the re-listing of the stocks according to the company’s application. To this end, a special chapter has been set in the revision to the “Measures”, and the arrangements have been made as follows:   First, if the illegal situation of delisting of a company with serious violations changes and is in line with the situation of “error correction”, the SSE will make the decision to revoke the original decision to terminate the listing of the company’s stocks within five trading days after receipt of the relevant legal instruments;   Second, after the SSE revokes the original decision to terminate the listing of a company's shares, the company may apply to the SSE for re-listing at any time. After the company submits the application for re-listing which is accepted by the SSE according to prescribed procedures, the SSE will decide whether to approve the re-listing of the stocks within 15 trading days;   Third, the re-listed stocks of a company are not necessarily put in the trading on the risk alert board of the SSE in the first place and may be exempt from the application to the provisions of restriction of selling shares for the controlling shareholders and actual controllers, directors, supervisors, and senior management in the “Measures”.   Q8: For the listed companies in the process of planning a major reorganization of assets when the decision of terminating the listing is issued, what are the bases for the provision that the company must hold a shareholders’ meeting to choose whether to enter the delisting arrangement period for trading? What are the provisions?   A: The implementation of major asset reorganization will have a significant impact on a listed company, and sometimes even lead to a " revival" in business type, size and other aspects and the significant improvement of business performance of the company. Therefore, after the decision to terminate the listing of the shares of a listed company, if the company’s directorate has approved and announced a major asset reorganization plan, the shares put into the delisting arrangement period for trading are likely to result in the significant volatility in trading, which is not conducive to market stability or protecting interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors. In order to fully respect shareholders’ autonomy of will, the revision has refined different requirements for the delisted companies to enter the delisting arrangement period, stipulating that any company planning a major asset reorganization should convene a shareholders’ meeting to decide whether to enter the delisting arrangement period. The relevant provisions involve three aspects:   I. The provision to trigger a shareholders’ meeting for decision-making is stipulated. If a listed company may be delisted by the SSE upon decision-making while the company’s directorate has discussed and approved, and announced the plan of significant asset reorganization, the company should timely hold a shareholders’ meeting to decide whether shares in the company will enter the delisting arrangement period for trading after being delisted.   II. The contents of the proposals to be decided by vote at the shareholders’ meeting and the requirement for the voting are specified. A listed company’s directorate should submit one of the following two proposals to the shareholders’ meeting for discussion: the proposal that shares in the company enter the delisting arrangement period and significant asset reorganization is terminated, or the proposal that shares in the company do not enter the delisting arrangement period and significant asset reorganization is continuously propelled. The relevant proposal should be agreed by no less than 2/3 of all shareholders present at the meeting.   III. Relevant arrangement is made according to the voting result. In light of different voting results, the SSE will accordingly make an arrangement: directly terminating listing of shares in the company, or shares in the company entering the delisting arrangement period for trading.   Q9: Why is a provision on suitability for investors trading in delisting arrangement period added in the revision? Please tell us more about the provision.   A: One of the important purposes of setting delisting arrangement period is to further release investment risks. Stocks entering the delisting arrangement period for trading will be delisted after the stipulated trading period expires. There are huge risks for investment in stocks in delisting arrangement periods, and investors need high awareness of investment risks and high risk tolerance capacities. Thus, to fully protect interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors, the stipulation on suitability for investors trading stocks in delisting arrangement period is added in the revision as follows:   Any individual investor who applies for buying shares in delisting arrangement period should have 2 years of experience in stock trading or above and hold financial assets of RMB0.5 million or above. The above financial asset will be verified by relevant securities company according to the available balance amounts (excluding securities and capital borrowed) of the investor’s securities market capitalization and capital accounts in the name of the investor.  

SSE Launches Pilot Business of Securities Companies’ Short-term Corporate Bonds for Securities Industry’s Growth, Transformation
16 Oct 2014
Upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) recently releases the “SSE Measures on Pilot Business of Securities Companies’ Short-term Corporate Bonds”, which marks the launch of the pilot work of securities companies’ short-term corporate bonds (the Short-term Bonds for short).   Securities companies have accelerated their business development and innovative progresses in recent years, with their financing needs continuously increased, while their leverage ratios are low and their financing channels are limited. Securities companies’ pilot issuance of short-term corporate bonds on the exchange’s bond market upon approval is regarded as a vigorous move of the relevant competent authority to implement requirements in the “Some Opinions of the State Council on Further Propelling Sound Growth of the Capital Market” and develop financing channels for securities and futures agencies. It is of great significance for boosting innovative growth of securities companies and development of the exchange’s bond market. First, the issuance of the Short-term Bonds contributes to further developing financing channels of securities companies and supporting innovative growth of the securities industry. As the Short-term Bonds provides a market-oriented short-term financing instrument (channel) for securities dealers, securities companies could, according to their business development, flexibly arrange for financing plans and supplement current capital sources. Besides, the issuance of the Short-term Bonds can not only meet short-term financing needs of securities companies, but also contribute to propelling the securities industry’s development and elevating the industry’s core competitiveness. Second, the issuance of the Short-term Bonds is conducive to diversifying bond products and meeting investors’ various needs. The Short-term Bonds, a supplement to the short-term products on the exchange’s bond market, contributes to optimizing the bond term structure of the exchange’s bond market, perfecting the market’s pricing mechanism, and fueling the corporate bond market’s growth. Meanwhile, the issuance of the Short-term Bonds provides an excellent short-term investment target for investors, especially the rapidly-developed investment products such as monetary funds, securities companies’ assets management products, and bank wealth management products, and contributes to meeting investors’ diversified needs of asset allocation.   An official of the SSE introduces that under the guidance of the CSRC, the SSE initially studied and formulated a pilot scheme for the Short-term Bonds with relevant departments, and solicited market opinions for many times. The systematical design of the Short-term Bonds embodies the principle of marketization, with the following characteristics. First, the pilot issuance of the Short-term Bonds will be carried out, and more issuers will be developed gradually later. The Short-term Bonds could be a short-term financing instrument for securities companies with standardized operation and good credit records. At the beginning, some securities companies with powerful comprehensive strength will be selected for the pilot issuance of the Short-term Bonds. Second, the balance management is adopted, with issuers independently controlling relevant issuance matters. The terms of the Short-term Bonds are less than one year. Securities dealers involved in the pilot issuance independently decide issuance time, term, and scale for each phase of bonds within lines approved by the CSRC. Securities companies who have got the qualification for securities underwriting business could handle issuance matters by themselves. Third, a filing system will be implemented, with issuance by installments acceptable. The Short-term Bonds, after being filed with the exchange, will be issued by installment in one year in light of its features such as short bond term and timeliness. The exchange will only check the completeness of the relevant filed documents and complete the filing work within 10 working days. Fourth, contractual freedom is stressed for flexibility. An issuer and investors independently negotiate the usage of the funds raised from the Short-term Bonds, as well as the bond rating, measures on credit enhancement, and other matters, which will be disclosed to the market as stipulated. Fifth, a qualified investors system will be implemented. Financial institutions and wealth management products issued by them, QFIIs and RQFIIs, and other eligible institutional investors can invest in the Short-term Bonds. After the Short-term Bonds filed with the exchange are issued, they will be transferred among eligible investors through the exchange’s technological system.   According to an SSE official, apart from providing services of filing, transfer and information disclosure for the Short-term Bonds, the SSE will take the following measures to boost the market growth. First, one-stop service will be provided. The SSE will provide one-stop service for registration and listing of various bonds including the Short-term Bonds to elevate the efficiency of registration and listing. The SSE bond business department will handle application documents of registration and listing, while the SSE and Shanghai Branch of China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd. will complete the work of bond registration and listing within 5 working days. Second, agreed repo of bonds will be opened as soon as possible. The SSE is sparing no efforts to open the business of collateralized agreed repo of bonds and provide a collateralized repo trading mechanism characterized by one-to-one negotiation for all kinds of bonds, which will contribute to lowering issuance costs of the Short-term Bonds and enhancing liquidity of the secondary market. Currently, relevant systematical development and testing work have been finished, and the business will be opened as soon as possible in the near future. Third, issuance service will be provided. The SSE has a mature bond issuance system boasting an array of functions of tendering, distribution, information disclosure and others, and it will support the Short-term Bonds’ issuance to eligible investors according to market demands.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Releasing “SSE Measures for Pilot Program of SHSECM” and “SSE Guidance of Investor Suitability Management for Buying and Selling Stocks of SEHK-listed Companies”
26 Sep 2014
　　Shang Zheng Fa (2014) No. 60 Document   All Market Participants,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the “SSE Measures for Pilot Program of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Exchanges Connectivity Mechanism (SHSECM)” (the “Measures” for short) and the “SSE Guidance of Investor Suitability Management for Buying and Selling Stocks of SEHK-listed Companies (SEHK: the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Ltd.)” (the “Guidance” for short) according to the “Some Regulations on Pilot Program of SHSECM” of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the “SSE Trading Rules”, and other regulations, in a bid to standardize the pilot program of the SHSECM. The “Measures” and the “Guidance” are hereby released, and shall take effect from the date of issuance.   　　 Shanghai Stock Exchange September 26, 2014

Notice of Amending Some Articles about Trading Participants in “SSE Trading Rules” and “SSE Detailed Implementation Rules for PBUs”
26 Sep 2014
　　 　　Shang Zheng Fa (2014) No. 59 Document   All Market Participants,   Upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has amended some articles about trading participants in the “SSE Trading Rules” (the “Trading Rules” for short) and the “SSE Detailed Implementation Rules for Participants Business Units (PBUs)” (the “Implementation Rules” for short), in a bid to propel implementation of the pilot program of the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Exchanges Connectivity Mechanism (SHSECM). Details of the amendments are as follows: I. Amendments to relevant articles of the “Trading Rules” 1. The stipulation on trading participants’ getting seats is deleted. The Article 2.2.1 is amended as follows: “Organizations approved by the SSE and SSE members shall apply for getting the trading right to the SSE and become the SSE’s trading participants before trading securities on the SSE market. Trading participants shall trade securities through PBUs set up on the SSE and abide by relevant stipulations of securities trading business in the Rules and the SSE’s other business rules.” 2. Order submission matters of trading participants are supplemented. (1) The Article 3.1.2 is amended to “Trading participants shall submit buying and selling orders to the SSE trading host through relevant offer system, PBUs and submission channels, and reach transactions according to the Rules, while the SSE shall send trading results and other trading records to the trading participants.” (2) The Article 3.1.3 is amended to “Trading participants shall properly take care of entrustment and submission records according to relevant regulations”. (3) The Article 3.4.1 is amended as follows: “Time for the SSE to receive trading participants’ submissions in auction trading is 09:15 to 09:25, 09:30 to 11:30 and 13:00 to 15:00 every trading day. The SSE’s trading host shall not receive submission of order cancellation from 09:20 to 09:25 (the time for open call auction) of each trading day; any submitted orders without transaction reached within other time intervals for receiving trading submissions could be cancelled, while such cancellation orders shall be confirmed by the SSE’s trading host before becoming valid. The SSE, if necessary, could adjust the time intervals for receiving trading submissions.” (4) The Article 3.4.3 is amended to “The SSE receives limit orders and market orders from trading participants”. (5) The Article 5.2.4 is amended to “Real-time quotation is transferred to trading participants through the communication system, and they shall use it within the scope approved by the SSE”. 3. Supervision and management matters relating to trading participants are supplemented. (1) The Article 6.4 is amended to “SSE members and their business departments, other trading participants and investors shall cooperate with the SSE for investigations, and provide relevant documents and materials in a timely, real, accurate, and complete way.” (2) The Article 8.2 is amended to “The SSE may provide indispensable trading data according to relevant regulations for any trading dispute between two trading participants or between a SSE member and its client.” (3) The Article 9.2 is amended to “Trading participants shall pay trading handling fee and other fees to the SSE according to relevant regulations; SSE members shall pay membership fee to the SSE according to relevant regulations.” (4) The Article 10.1 is amended to “If SSE members and other trading participants fail to abide by the Rules, the SSE shall order them to make rectifications and, in light of circumstances, impose additional punishments, or main punishments plus additional punishments as follows: a. a criticism notice; b. a public condemnation; c. suspension or limitation of trading authority; d. cancellation of the qualification of trading participant; and e. cancellation of the qualification of SSE member. (5) The Article 10.2 is amended to “If SSE members and other trading participants hold dissents to the punishments mentioned in the above items b, c, d, and e, they could apply for review to the SSE’s Board of Governors within 15 days after receiving a notice of punishment. During the review period, execution of relevant punishments shall not be halted”. II. Amendments to relevant articles of the “Implementation Rules” The Clause 2 in Article 5 in the “Implementation Rules” is deleted, and is amended to “A trading participant can trade securities on the SSE market only after setting up a trading unit.” The above amendments shall take effect from the date of issuance. 　　 Shanghai Stock Exchange September 26, 2014

Notice of Releasing “Essential Articles of Entrustment Agreement for Buying and Selling Stocks of SEHK-listed Companies” and “Essential Articles of Trading Risk Disclosure Statement for Buying and Selling Stocks of SEHK-listed Companies”
26 Sep 2014
　　Shang Zheng Fa (2014) No. 61 Document   All member units and relevant market participants,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd. (CSDC) have jointly formulated the “Essential Articles of Entrustment Agreement for Buying and Selling Stocks of Listed Companies on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Ltd. (SEHK)” and the “Essential Articles of Trading Risk Disclosure Statement for Buying and Selling Stocks of SEHK-listed Companies” (See Attachments), in a bid to standardize securities companies’ business lines related to buying and selling stocks of SEHK-listed companies. The above two documents are hereby released, and all the relevant parties are required to abide by them.   Securities companies should, according to the above two documents, work out the “Entrustment Agreement for Buying and Selling Stocks of SEHK-listed Companies” (the “Entrustment Agreement” for short) and the “Trading Risk Disclosure Statement for Buying and Selling Stocks of SEHK-listed Companies” (the “Disclosure Statement” for short). Besides, they should, in accordance with the “SSE Guidance of Investor Suitability Management for Buying and Selling Stocks of SEHK-listed Companies”, formulate the operation guidance of investor suitability management for buying and selling stocks of SEHK-listed companies and relevant working systems, fully remind investors of major risks, especially explain to investors the differences between the two securities markets in Hong Kong and Shanghai, properly carry out the work of investor suitability management and the work of investor education, and take measures to learn and check the investors’ awareness of risks.   Since the release day of the notice, securities companies can sign the “Entrustment Agreement” and the “Disclosure Statement” with investors.     Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited   September 26, 2014

SSE Issues “Guidelines for Information Disclosure Work of Shareholding Plans for Listed Companies’ Employees”
23 Sep 2014
Recently, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has issued the “Guidelines for Information Disclosure Work of Shareholding Plans for Listed Companies’ Employees” (the “Guidance” for short). The "Guidance" is intended for implementing the “Guiding Opinions on Pilot Program of Listed Companies’ Implementing Shareholding Plans for Employees” (the “Guiding Opinions”) of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, specifying requirements for information disclosure in implementing shareholding plans for listed companies’ employees and guiding listed companies to vigorously promote this work.   According to relevant source from the SSE, given that the “Guiding Opinions” has laid out feasible system arrangement for the major issues in shareholding plans for listed companies’ employees, in order to demonstrate the level difference in terms of rules compared with those of the “Guiding Opinions”, the “Guidance” has positioned itself as specified business rules in information disclosure, mainly stipulating discussion procedures and obligation in information disclosure required to be performed in implementing shareholding plans for listed companies’ employees from the perspective of operation. Considering all this, the “Guidance” hardly repeats any requirements already stipulated in the “Guiding Opinions”.   The “Guidance” is divided into 5 sections of general rules, formulation of shareholding plans for listed companies’ employees, implementation of shareholding plans for listed companies’ employees, other rules, and attachments. Its main contents are rules on the discussion procedures and obligation in information disclosure of listed companies and relevant bodies according to the time order from the formulation of shareholding plans for listed companies’ employees and their implementation.   Regarding the formulation of shareholding plans for listed companies’ employees, the “Guidance” makes requirements in the following 2 aspects:   First, the formulation of shareholding plans for listed companies’ employees should undergo procedures including discussion of the directorate, opinion soliciting at the employees’ meeting, and obtaining approval at the shareholders’ meeting, in which directors or shareholders participating in the employee shareholding plans are required not to be present.   Second, it is stipulated that listed companies should disclose the situation of opinion soliciting at the employees’ meeting, the full text and abstract of the employee shareholding plans, lawyers’ opinions, and opinions of independent directors and the board of supervisors’ meeting on time. Besides, the “Guidance” specifies rules in relevant issues.   Moreover, the “Guidance”, on the basis of the “Guiding Opinions”, further refines requirements on disclosing the targeted participants and fund source in the employee shareholding plans.   As for the implementation of the employee shareholding plans, the “Guidance” stipulates rules in the following 4 aspects:   First, listed companies should disclose the detailed arrangement and implementation of buying or transfer of shares on time, according to different sources of the shares in the employee shareholding plans.   Second, if the employee shareholding plans are changed or terminated, relevant decision-making procedures at the meeting for shareholders, the directorate meeting, and the shareholders’ meeting should be performed, and relevant information should be disclosed on time.   Third, when the term of the employee shareholding plans expires, the number of shares held upon expiration should be disclosed according to relevant regulations.   Fourth, listed companies should disclose the basic information and major changes of the employee shareholding plans in its regular reports during the corresponding periods.   Actually, after the issuance of the "Guiding Opinions", SSE-listed companies such as San’an Optoelectronics Co., Ltd. and Fujian Longking Co., Ltd. have announced drafts for implementation of the employee shareholding plans. An official of the SSE says that, the employee shareholding plans are conducive to establishing a mechanism for co-sharing of interests by employees and owners of the enterprises, encouraging employees’ better performance, and enhancing operational efficiency in the enterprises. For all this, the SSE will continue to improve its work in offering policy consultation and services. At the same time, all listed companies should take the initiative in innovating the practicing patterns for the employee shareholding plans according to their own conditions, in a bid to realize common growth of the interests of the enterprises and those of the employees.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Releasing “SSE Guidelines for Information Disclosure Work of Shareholding Plans for Listed Companies’ Employees”
22 Sep 2014
All listed companies,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the “SSE Guidelines for Information Disclosure Work of Shareholding Plans for Listed Companies’ Employees” (the “Guidelines” for short, see attachment), in a bid to implement requirements in the “Guiding Opinions on Pilot Program of Listed Companies’ Implementing Shareholding Plans for Employees” (CSRC Announcement [2014] No. 33 Document) of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), guide listed companies’ implementation of shareholding plans for employees, and standardize information disclosure of listed companies and relevant bodies. The “Guidelines” is hereby released and shall come into effect from the date of release.   Shanghai Stock Exchange September 22, 2014

Streamlining Administration, Decentralizing Authority for Growth of Securities Companies’ Subordinated Bonds, More Financing Channels Provided
17 Sep 2014
On September 18, 2014, subordinated bonds issued by Minsheng Securities and Bohai Securities will be listed on the bond trading platform of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), with the scale of securities companies’ subordinated bonds to be further enlarged. Remarkably, the subordinated bonds issued by the above two securities companies with aftermath record filing will be listed on the SSE, after subordinated bonds of Everbright Securities, the first kind of domestic subordinated bonds going through aftermath record filing at the relevant securities regulatory bureau, were listed on the SSE on June 26, 2014. According to the “Decision of the State Council on Cancelling and Decentralizing Authority of Administrative Approval of Some Items” (Guo Fa [2014] No. 5 Document), the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) released an announcement (CSRC Announcement [2014] No. 10 Document) on February 21, 2014, in which the CSRC decided to cancel administrative approval for securities companies’ borrowing subordinated bonds. That is, securities companies should carry out aftermath record filing at the relevant securities regulatory bureau after completing issuance of subordinated bonds, and the securities regulatory bureau should give a receipt for the record filing to the applicant under the precondition of complete documents.   Aftermath record filing is conducive to enhancing efficiency of securities companies’ subordinated bonds issuance. Thanks to it, securities companies can select issuance time more independently and flexibly, lower issuance costs, and make subordinated bonds into a high-efficient and stable financing instrument for securities companies. With the more fierce competition and the expanded innovation scope seen in the securities industry over past years, securities companies put forward higher and higher requirements for capital scales. Subordinated bonds issuance contributes to replenishing net capital, elevating securities companies’ market competitiveness and anti-risk capability, and providing fund support for their business innovation.   Since release of the “Regulation on Management of Securities Companies’ Subordinated Bonds”, the SSE has successively provided listing service for subordinated bonds issued by over 20 securities companies including Guotai Junan Securities, CITIC Securities, and China Securities, with the total issuance amount up to more than RMB60 billion, which has facilitated to solve limits on securities companies’ financing and create more financing channels for them.   Since last year, the SSE has taken an array of measures to boost the innovative development of the bond market and improve the financial service. The SSE has provided one-stop service to improve efficiency of bonds registration and listing. That is, securities companies submit application documents of registration and listing to the SSE, and the SSE and Shanghai Branch of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited will complete the work of bonds registration and listing within 5 working days. Besides, the SSE will open the business of collateralized agreed repo characterized by independent negotiation and agreed transaction of buyer and seller this year, in a bid to enhance liquidity of the secondary bond market and lower financing costs of issuers. The innovative business will provide functions of liquidity support and repo financing for publicly offered bonds and non-publicly-issued-products such as securities companies’ subordinated bonds.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

4-party Agreement on SHSECM Signed on Sep 4
05 Sep 2014
A 4-party agreement on the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Exchanges Connectivity Mechanism (SHSECM) is signed at the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) on September 4. The agreement, a fundamental document about the cooperation of the SSE, the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Ltd. (SEHK), China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd. (CSDC), and Hong Kong Securities Clearing Company Ltd. (HKSCC) in the business lines of the SHSECM, specifies rights and obligations of the 4 parties and involves details of major business lines about the SHSECM. The agreement is signed by Huang Hongyuan, SSE President, Li Xiaojia (Charles Li), Chief Executive of Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (HKEx), and Dai Wenhua, General Manager of CSDC. Also attending the signing ceremony are Gui Minjie, SSE Chairman of the Governors, CHOW Chung Kong, HKEx Chairman, and Zhou Ming, CSDC Board Chairman.  The agreement is formulated according to the principles put forward in the “Joint Announcement” released by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) of Hong Kong on April 10, 2014. It was specified in the “Joint Announcement” that the CSRC and the SFC approved in principle the pilot program of the SHSECM by the 4 parties, and an array of principles that should be followed when the SHSECM project is implemented as scheduled were given as well. Gui says at the signing ceremony that the agreement, finally signed today upon long-term research and repeated negotiation by all the sides, builds a complete agreement framework for the SHSECM business cooperation, specifies all the obligations and rights of the 4 sides in stock trading, clearing, deposit, market supervision for the SHSECM, and symbolizes that the two exchanges and the two clearing companies, which undertake the market organization business for the SHSECM, have reached an array of consensuses in term of all the mechanism arrangements. Next, we will accelerate technical preparations for business lines, promptly release all the business rules, and carry out tests for technical systems, in a bid to provide better conditions for the official debut of the SHSECM. “The signing of the agreement is a new milestone for the building of the SHSECM. We have made good progress since the ‘Joint Announcement’ in April, and we are confident that we can reach our goal as planned,” says CHOW Chung Kong. “The signing of the agreement shows that the SHSECM project has completely entered a fast traffic lane, and it also paves a solid foundation for smooth implementation of the project. Besides, the SHSECM project is an important move of CSDC to go global. Upon approval by the CSRC, CSDC has launched preparations for establishing a wholly-owned subsidiary in Hong Kong, which will spare no efforts to ensure safe and high-efficient operation of the SHSECM business lines,” says Zhou Ming. The 4 parties stress that the agreement should be implemented with relevant conditions met. For example, all rules for the relevant arrangements are given, and relevant documents of business operation are signed and come into force. For the launch of the SHSECM business lines, a series of factors such as completion of technical systems and investors’ preparations should be considered apart from completion of relevant rules. The agreement respectively makes arrangements for the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Exchanges Trading Mechanism (SHSETM) and the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Exchanges Clearing Mechanism (SHSECM). Major stipulations on the SHSETM are as follows: I. The arrangements for order routing will be made. 1. Under the precondition of abiding by applicable laws, the SSE and SSE Securities Trading Service Company (the subsidiary of the SSE for short), as well as SEHK and SEHK Securities Trading Service Company (the subsidiary of SEHK for short) will make following arrangements: (1) An arrangement for order routing will be made, so that participants of SEHK, who are entrusted by investors buying and selling stocks of SSE-listed companies to buy and sell stocks of SSE-listed companies, could submit buying and selling orders to the SSE through the subsidiary of SEHK; and (2) An arrangement for order routing will be made, so that members of the SSE, who are entrusted by investors buying and selling stocks of SEHK-listed companies to buy and sell stocks of SEHK-listed companies, could submit buying and selling orders to SEHK through the subsidiary of the SSE. 2. The SSE, through the subsidiary of the SSE to be established in Hong Kong, will receive orders of buying and selling stocks of SEHK-listed companies from the SSE members, and submit the orders to the SEHK trading platform for trading on SEHK, in a bid to realize and facilitate the trading of SEHK-listed stocks. The SSE should urge the subsidiary of the SSE to get the recognition of the service provider of automatic trading in the “Securities and Futures Ordinance” of the SFC upon application and the recognition of the special participant of SEHK for doing business in Hong Kong. The SSE should make all reasonable efforts to get all other necessary approvals and make the subsidiary of the SSE to operate itself in Hong Kong and China’s Mainland according to the contents to be formulated in the agreement. Furthermore, the SSE should apply for the recognition of the service provider of automatic trading for its future activities related to trading stocks of SSE-listed companies in Hong Kong according to requirements possibly put forward by the SFC. 3. SEHK should establish a wholly-owned company in Shanghai as soon as possible to receive orders of buying and selling stocks of SSE-listed companies from participants of SEHK, and submit the orders to the SSE trading platform for trading on the SSE, in a bid to realize and facilitate the trading of SSE-listed stocks. SEHK should urge the subsidiary of SEHK to get the business license under applicable laws in China’s Mainland upon application for doing business in China’s Mainland and get the recognition of the special trading participant of the SSE, as well as get the recognition of the service provider of automatic trading in the “Securities and Futures Ordinance” of the SFC upon application for doing business in Hong Kong. SEHK should make all reasonable efforts to get all other necessary approvals, and ensure the establishment of the subsidiary of SEHK and make it operate in China’s Mainland and Hong Kong according to the contents to be formulated in the agreement. Furthermore, SEHK should apply for any approval for its future activities related to trading stocks of SEHK-listed companies in China’s Mainland according to requirements possibly put forward by the CSRC. II. The tradable securities under the SHSETM 1. The SSE will accept constituent stocks of the SSE 180 index and the SSE 380 index as well as SSE-listed stocks (not included into the above constituent stocks) of the issuers issuing shares on both the SSE and SEHK as the SSE-listed stocks tradable for investors in Hong Kong. However, all the SSE-listed stocks not quoted in RMB and all the SSE-listed stocks imposed with risk alerts will not be included temporarily. 2. SEHK will accept constituent stocks of Hang Seng Composite LargeCap Index (HSLI) and Hang Seng Composite MidCap Index (HSMI) as well as H shares (not included into the above constituent stocks) of the issuers issuing shares on both the SSE and SEHK as the SEHK-listed stocks tradable for investors in China’s Mainland. However, all the SEHK-listed stocks not quoted in HK$ and H stocks of the issuers issuing shares on both any stock exchange (excluding the SSE) in China’s Mainland and SEHK will not be included temporarily. Furthermore, if SSE-listed stocks of the issuers issuing both shares on both the SSE and SEHK are imposed with risk alerts, H shares of the issuers will not be included temporarily no matter whether the H shares are constituent stocks of HSLI or HSMI. 3. Investors can not buy but can sell the stocks which were once included as the SSE-listed stocks tradable for investors in Hong Kong or the SEHK-listed stocks tradable for investors in China’s Mainland but do not meet the above conditions later. 4. The SSE and SEHK can negotiate and amend the scope of the SSE-listed stocks tradable for investors in Hong Kong and that of the SEHK-listed stocks tradable for investors in China’s Mainland upon agreement of the two sides and approvals of relevant regulators. III. Currencies for trading If the investors in Hong Kong buy and sell the tradable SSE-listed stocks, trading and delivery are RMB-denominated only; if the investors in China’s Mainland buy and sell the tradable SEHK-listed stocks, quotation is HK$-denominated only, and delivery with CSDC or other clearing participants is RMB-denominated. IV. Off-exchange trading prohibited The SSE should stipulate in its rules that the subsidiary of the SSE and the SSE members should not transfer the stocks held under the SEHK-listed Stocks Clearing Mechanism or provide transfer service outside SEHK, excluding some otherwise stipulated by the CSRC; SEHK should stipulate in its rules that the subsidiary of SEHK and participants of SEHK should not transfer the stocks held under the SSE-listed Stocks Clearing Mechanism or provide transfer service outside the SSE, excluding some otherwise stipulated by the CSRC. V. Development and listing of derivatives Any party of the SSE and SEHK, without a written consent of the other party, should not develop options, futures, and other derivatives on the basis of the stocks or stock indexes listed on the other party; if an issuer plans to issue warrants or other derivatives (including callable bull/bear contract [CBBC]) on the basis of the stocks or stock indexes listed on any party of the SSE and SEHK and list them on the other party, relevant issues should be negotiated by the SSE and SEHK otherwise. Before negotiation, any party of the SSE and SEHK should not arrange for listing of the above products, but the above products already listed on the two parties should not be subject to the limit. If one party, upon getting a written consent of the other party, develops and lists the abovementioned derivatives or arranges for listing of the abovementioned derivatives developed by issuers, the two parties should share alike the incomes from the derivatives under the precondition that no other stipulation on profit distribution is made. VI. Applicable laws and rules All orders submitted to the SSE or implemented on the SSE through the mechanism of trading SSE-listed stocks in Hong Kong should abide by the business rules and procedures of the SSE and applicable laws in China’s Mainland; All orders submitted to SEHK or implemented on SEHK through the mechanism of trading SEHK-listed stocks in China’s Mainland should abide by the business rules and procedures of SEHK and applicable laws in Hong Kong. The SSE and SEHK will respectively urge the subsidiary of the SSE and the subsidiary of SEHK to abide by applicable laws, the 4-party agreement, and the operation document. 7. Rules and procedures will be amended for the SHSETM. The SSE and SEHK need to adjust their rules and procedures respectively in response to the arrangements made by them for the SHSETM. The SSE and SEHK will negotiate the above adjustments, and amend and add indispensable clauses and articles in their rules and procedures under the precondition of abiding by applicable laws and getting indispensable approvals, in a bid to implement, facilitate, support the establishment, implementation, and smooth and orderly operation of the SHSETM. VIII. Agreements on the SHSETM and the SHSECM will be signed. The SSE, SEHK, the subsidiary of the SSE, and the subsidiary of SEHK will further negotiate and sign an agreement on the SHSETM, involving an array of arrangements for detailed issues of the SHSETM. CSDC and HKSCC will further negotiate and sign an agreement on the SHSECM, involving an array of arrangements for clearing and delivery services as well as registration and depository services of the SHSECM. IX. Sharing of Incomes The SSE and SEHK will, in the principle of fair treatment, share alike the incomes in form of trading fees resulted from the SHSETM. Besides, CSDC and HKSCC will, in the principle of fair treatment, share alike the incomes in form of clearing fees resulted from the SHSECM. X. Conditions for implementation The 4-party agreement should be implemented before the following conditions are met: 1. All indispensable approvals have been obtained; 2. All applicable laws, which are indispensable to implement all the arrangements mentioned in the 4-party agreement or to be discussed, have been formulated or amended and come into force; and 3. The operation document has been signed and come into force. The implementation of the SHSETM and that of the SHSECM condition each other.        On September 4, Huang Hongyuan (Middle), SSE President, Li Xiaojia (left),  HKEx Chief Executive, and Dai Wenhua, CSDC General Manager signed the 4-party agreement. Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

14 SSE-listed Banks to Hold Business Performance Briefings in Sep.
01 Sep 2014
Firmly building the blue-chip market to pave a way for the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Exchanges Connectivity Mechanism (SHSECM) From September 1 (today) to 19, all the 14 listed commercial banks on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will successively hold an array of briefings on business performance during trading days. The unprecedented activity will boast its scale and concentration. An official of the SSE says that conditions will be continuously created for SSE-listed companies to enhance transparency and maintain investor relations. In light of investors’ needs, the SSE will guide SSE-listed companies to respond to concerns and remove information asymmetry, in a bid to enhance investors’ confidence.   The 14 listed banks include Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, China Construction Bank, Bank of China, Agricultural Bank of China, Bank of Communications, China Merchants Bank, China Minsheng Banking Corp., CITIC Bank, Industrial Bank, Shanghai Pudong Development Bank, China Everbright Bank, Bank of Beijing, Hua Xia Bank, and Bank of Nanjing.   The 14 SSE-listed Banks and the SSE fit in easily. It is known that before release of 2014 semi-annual reports, some banks issuing both A shares and H shares asked the SSE whether they could hold briefings on business performance in China’s mainland by referring to their practices in Hong Kong. Upon study, the SSE held that it would be necessary to do this. Considering that under the prediction on the interest rate liberalization and the “New Normal” of the Chinese Macro-economy, the market and all walks of life had some common questions for the operation and development of the listed banks and some special questions for the operational modes of some listed banks. Thus, the SSE decided to solicit intentions of all the SSE-listed banks for holding briefings on business performance, with an aim of guiding the listed banks to enhance transparency, strengthen their talks with investors, and reveal all the truths. Surprisingly, all the 14 listed banks were willing to do this. According to the result of initial negotiation, the listed banks and the SSE decided to hold this activity after disclosing the semi-annual reports, with the relevant sites, technologies, and other supports to be provided by the SSE.   “We think that the listed banks’ briefings on business performance will come at a good time with great significance. Presently, a strong wait-and-see atmosphere prevails in the market, with the total market valuation standing at a low level. The stocks of the listed banks, the blue-chip board in the capital market, also see a low valuation. The SSE makes the briefings on business performance into a perfect platform for all the listed banks, investors, analysts, and media reporters to have in-depth talks on the issues concerned in the market, which will contribute to reducing doubts and worries in the market, elevating investors’ confidence, and propelling listed banks’ management on market capitalization”, says Du Jianglong, Secretary to Directorate of Bank of Communications.   The SSE: Vitalizing Blue Chips for Building the SHSECM An official of the SSE says: “On the one hand, listed companies have a right to hold briefings on business performance. Investors are expected to rationally read the information to be released on the briefings and understand the ‘September’ series activity from the perspective of furthering talks. On the other hand, the activity is expected to show our resolution to fuel the building of the blue-chip market”. The official stresses that the SSE will continue to provide services in its power for the rationalized reinforcement and vitalization of the blue-chip market.   The official adds that while actively preparing for the SHSECM, all sides need to fully know about the SSE market. The concentrated display of the SSE-listed banks’ business performance in September shows the status of the listed bank board. “It is feasible to clearly understand the investment value of the SSE market from the listed bank board”, says he.   According to statistics, all the 14 listed banks are investment targets in the mechanism of Hong Kong’s investors buying stocks of SSE-listed companies, a part of the SHSECM. Although the number (14) of the SSE-listed banks accounts for less than 1.4% of the number of the total SSE-listed companies, the 14 listed banks’ total market capitalization is up to 21.81% of the total market capitalization of the SSE market, with the total floating market capitalization accounting for 23.25% of the total. As of August 27, the weighted average real price-earnings ratio of the 14 listed banks had been only 4.59 times, while the real price-earnings ratios of the SSE 50 Index, the SSE 180 Index, and the SSE 380 Index had been respectively 7.42 times, 8.2 times, and 20.86 times.   Recently, several securities dealers hold in their research reports that in a middle-and-long term, as the valuations of the stocks of the listed banks have dropped for 5 consecutive years, the valuations below net asset values have fully showed the worries about the bank assets in the market. In a short term, investment in stocks of banks will be mainly affected by the market sentiments.   “The listed banks’ briefings on business performance will exert a very positive influence on their talks with investors, and this activity will provide a base and a platform for value investing and rational investment”, says Xu Shiqing, Secretary to Directorate of China Merchants Bank.   All the relevant sides will participate in the briefings, and truths of the listed banks’ business performance will be revealed. It was specified in the “Some Opinions of the State Council on Further Propelling Sound Growth of the Capital Market” that listed companies should be urged to fulfill the obligation of information disclosure according to investors’ needs, and the effectiveness of information disclosure should be strengthened; institutional investors, including securities investment funds, should be urged to attend business performance briefings of listed companies and exercise rights on behalf of public investors.   An official of the SSE introduces that the 14 listed banks and the SSE have made a lot of preparations to enhance pertinence and effectiveness of the briefings and facilitate the activity according to investors’ needs. Firstly, all the relevant sides were invited to attend the briefings. Apart from heads of the 14 listed banks, front-line analysts, researchers, and over 10 news media were invited to ensure the quality of talks and display the concerns of the market and the public. An analyst invited says that thanks to the concentrated briefings to be held, it will be easy to comprehensively, carefully, and comparably grasp the listed banks’ business performance, with the analyzing efficiency to be greatly elevated compared with analyzing one bank only. Secondly, a smooth channel for questions and suggestions has been provided. The SSE has issued the “Notice of Soliciting Investors’ Questions about Business Performance of SSE-listed Banks’ Semi-annual Reports”, and all the listed banks have released email addresses to solicit questions concerned by investors (please visit the webpage of the “SSE Roadshow Center” at http://roadshow.sseinfo.com) and seriously be prepared to give replies. Finally, text broadcasts will be given to stress the transparency of the briefings. Investors could visit the page of the “SSE Roadshow Center” of SSE InfoNet Ltd.   An analyst covering the banking industry says that the activity is expected to reveal truths of the listed banks’ business performance, so that investors can make rational judgments according to the truths.   It is introduced that since last year, the SSE has vigorously boosted roadshow forms of listed companies, such as briefings on business performance and explanation meetings, to respond to the concerns in the market and the society. In addition to the relevant activities held by listed companies, the SSE has required the listed companies widely concerned or reasonably questioned in the market to hold briefings. Since last year, the SSE has assisted listed companies in holding 242 roadshows, which has gained widespread praises.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Holds 2nd Session of “Talkfest for Int’l Investors”
01 Sep 2014
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held the 2nd session of “Talkfest for Int’l Investors” from August 28 to 29. Heads of Asia-Pacific trading business of 14 top institutional investors participated in the activity, in which the SSE introduced the latest development of China’s capital market and the SSE, the innovative work issues of the SSE, as well as presented the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Exchanges Connectivity Mechanism (the SHSECM), and answered some issues concerned by overseas investors. Besides, overseas investment institutions expressed their willingness in participating in the SHSECM, as well as introduced in detail about their relevant work plans and preparation situation. Heads of the Market Regulation Department of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the business lines of the SHSECM of the SSE, and Shanghai Branch of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited (SD&C) compared notes on arrangement of the SHSECM with famous overseas investment institutions in an extensive and in-depth way.   In this activity, relevant head of the SSE said that, according to the requirements of the “Joint Announcement” co-issued by securities regulatory commissions in Shanghai and Hong Kong, the SSE is promoting all-round work issues including business lines, rules, markets, supervision, technologies, and investor education. Presently, the SSE is accelerating the formulation of relevant business regulations and will release them to the market as soon as they are completed. Since August, the SSE has been carrying out tests of the SHSECM, such as access test, all-day test, and entire network test. Moreover, institutional investors attending the meeting exchanged opinions with participants from the CSRC, the SSE, and SD&C on an array of concerned issues such as protection of rights and interests of shareholders of the SHSECM, examination on trading front-end, limitation on shareholding proportion, and disclosure requirements, and company behaviors.   After the meeting, it was widely held among the overseas investment institutions that activities of this kind would help them participate in China’s capital market, and learn more about the trading and clearing mechanism featured with the SHSECM, as well as add to their confidence in participating in the trading in the SHSECM. They also hoped that more diversified activities and in-depth exchange programs with the SSE would be held in the future. Institutional investors said that, this activity helped them better understand China’s capital market, and showed the openness of the SSE in building itself into a top exchange in the world and serving the building of the Shanghai international financial center.   According to an SSE official, the SSE will strengthen services for overseas investors, better the implementation of introduction policies featured with the integration of “Ushering in” and “Going Global”, help global investors to better understand China’s capital market and participate in the capital market in China’s mainland in various ways, in a bid to promote the internalization progress of China’s capital market.   It is learnt that, since the beginning of September, the SSE and the HKEx will co-hold an international roadshow, in order to introduce the SHSECM and its relevant arrangements to investors from North America, Europe and Middle East. Besides, more activities themed with “Ushering in” will be held, in a bid to strengthen exchanges with overseas investors and lay the foundation for launching the SHSECM.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Paper Solicitation for 5th "SSE Legal Forum" also "On Securities Laws"
25 Aug 2014
The capital market highly depends on legal construction, as strengthened legal construction contributes to building a booming market. Building a law-ruled capital market is a realistic requirement for implementing the principle of ruling the country according to laws, an inevitable way for building a mature capital market, and a key breakthrough point for propelling a new round of reform in the capital market.   We should improve the legislation work, cement the law enforcement, boost the judicial justice, and strictly abide by laws for the construction of the law-ruled capital market. Since last year, the construction of the law-ruled capital market has seen an array of new progresses; the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress successively included the revision of the “Securities Law” into the 5-year legislation plan and the 2014 legislation plan of the National People’s Congress, with the relevant revision work being carried out as well; securities regulatory organs vigorously propelled streamlined administration and decentralized power, actively explored in regulatory transformation, and intensified regulatory law enforcement; judicial organs continuously optimized the judicial environment for the capital market and escorted for the market growth.   The new situation of strengthening the all-round reform and the new background of vigorously propelling the campaign of ruling the country according to laws both put forward new tasks and requirements for building the law-ruled capital market. In the fourth quarter of 2014, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), Peking University, Renmin University of China, and East China University of Political Science and Law will hold the 5th SSE Legal Forum, in a bid to fuel studies on the legal construction of the capital market and solicit pertinent policies and suggestions. The forum hereby solicits papers from experts and scholars in the theory and practice circles worldwide. The outstanding papers will be released in the “On Securities Law” (a CSSCI periodical) successively published by the Law Press. Contributions to the 5th “SSE Legal Forum” will be regarded as contributions to the “On Securities Law”. Contributors should pay attention to the following issues:   I. Scope of Papers   Contributions are expected to be research papers on the themes of “A Study on Legislation of the Capital Market”, “A Study on Regulatory Practices in the Capital Market”, “A Study on Laws about Innovation in the Capital Market”, “A Study on Typical Law Cases in the Capital Market”, “A Study on Legal Systems of Overseas Capital Markets”, and others.   Topics for reference (no limit):   1. Comprehensively Strengthened Reform and Legal Construction of the Capital Market 2. Concepts and Systems of the Law-ruled Capital Market 3. Legal Construction for Regulatory Transformation of the Capital Market 4. Judicial Construction for Reform and Innovation in the Capital Market 5. The Reform of the Registration System of Share Issuance 6. The Construction of the Multi-Layer Capital Market 7. Innovative Development and System Building of the Bond Market 8. Perfection of the Legal System of Asset Securitization 9. Development and System Building of the Securities Derivatives Market 10. Internationalization and System Building of the Capital Market 11. Financial Innovation and Investor Protection in Internet Era 12. Introspection and Expectation for Listed Company’s Corporate Governance and Information Disclosure System 13. Challenges Brought by Trading-Related Technological Development to Traditional Securities Trading System and Solutions 14. Market Self-governance and Perfection of the Watchdog System of Intermediaries 15. A Study on the System of Merger and Acquisition and Significant Asset Reorganization of Listed Companies   II. Contribution Deadline October 15, 2014   III. Requirements for Contributions   1. Scientific argumentation, sufficient evidence, rigorous logic, clear-cut structure, and fluent expression are expected from the contributions. The market-oriented contributions with high academic quality and practical value are especially expected. About 10,000 Chinese characters are perfect for each contribution. Extraordinarily outstanding ones, however, will not be subject to the limit.   2. Please send your contributions, which comply with the national regulations on copyright, the generally accepted academic standards, and the requirements specified in the "Layout Style" of the “On Securities Law” (Please refer to the “On Securities Law” and the “Research & Publication” column on the SSE official website [www.sse.com.cn]), to zqfy@sse.com.cn (Confirmation by phone after e-mailing is advised).   3. Anonymous review system will be adopted for the journal. No personal information should appear in the papers, and a writer could specify his or her general information (including name, birth date, place of work, academic degree, professional title, research fruits), contact methods (address, postal code, telephone, and e-mail), and whether the relevant paper is a research fruit (please specify it) on another page attached.   4. The editorial office of the journal reserves the right to make literary and technical amendments to the contributions. Articles published in the journal do not represent the stance of the SSE. Authors of the articles shall take all legal responsibilities in that regard. Except those with special statements, all the opinions expressed in the articles are personal and have nothing to do with the authors' positions or employers.   5. Contribution to the “On Securities Law” will be viewed as authorizing the journal to include the papers into the “Online Publishing Database of China Academic Journals”, CNKI Series Database, chinalawinfo.com (Peking University Legal Information Network) Journal Database, Wanfang Database, and other academic resource databases recognized by the journal. The royalties paid by the journal to the authors include the copyright royalties of the above databases. Please specify any objections in your contributions so that the journal can make arrangements accordingly.   6. Contacts: The SSE Legal Affairs Department Wang Wenxin (Tel: 021-68801417) Peng Lujun (Tel: 021-68806659)   The Shanghai Stock Exchange August 2014

SSE Holds Talkfest for Int’l Investors
01 Aug 2014
From July 31 to August 1, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held the first talkfest for international investors. Among those attending the event were nearly 80 representatives from well-know overseas investment institutions. The SSE introduced the recent development of China’s capital market, its business innovation and the preparations for the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Exchanges Connectivity Mechanism (SHSECM), the stock and bond markets, and QFIIs’ participation in the SSE market, and it also answered an array of questions raised by the overseas investors. The Shanghai Financial Service Office introduced the building of the International Financial Center of Shanghai, and executives of SSE-listed companies talked about their companies’ growth. Besides, some overseas investors went to Shanghai-based listed companies for surveys.   In the talkfest, an official of the SSE elaborated on its preparations for the SHSECM since April, and told that work items related to business lines, rules and agreements, markets, supervision, technologies, as well as risk and contingency management would be propelled according to the “Joint Announcement” released by the China Securities Regulatory Commission and the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) of Hong Kong. The overseas investors discussed with the attendees of the SSE on how international investors invest in the stocks on the SSE market through the SHSECM and other issues. After the talkfest, the overseas investors praised the event. “The talkfest shows embracement of the SSE towards us, and it is very helpful for us to invest in China’s capital market, grasp the trading settlement system of the SHSECM, and know more about the SSE-listed companies”, said the overseas investors.   “Overseas investors are not only one of the important market participants on the SSE, but also one of the major forces in the globalization of the SSE. Presently, overseas investors have low participation in China’s capital market, as their shareholding proportion is less than 2% on the SSE market. As we can see, we still lag behind mature capital markets, but the SSE has great potential in attracting overseas investors,” said an official of the SSE.   It is learnt that the SSE will improve services for overseas investors. Attaching importance to both soliciting investment and going global, it will help them know more about China’s capital market in various ways and through various channels.   Source: Shanghai Securities News

Symposium for 5th Anniversary of Founding "On Securities Laws" Held in Beijing
28 Jul 2014
　　A symposium for the 5th anniversary of the founding of "On Securities Laws", a periodical founded by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), was held in Beijing on July 26, 2014. Among those attending were officials and famous experts from the Finance and Economic Committee of the National People's Congress, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the All-China Lawyers Association, the China Civil Law Society, the China Commercial Law Society, the China Economic Law Society, the China Securities Law Society, Peking University, Tsinghua University, Renmin University of China, the Institute of Law of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, East China University of Political Science and Law, Zhejiang University, and Xiamen University. The process of founding the periodical was reviewed at the symposium, with some suggestions on improvements put forward as well.   　　The "On Securities Laws", sponsored by the SSE, with SSE Chairman of the Governors Gui Minjie as Editor-in-chief and SSE President Huang Hongyuan and SSE Vice President Xu Ming as chief editors, is an academic periodical about science of law published by the Law Press China. It aims to propel studies on legal construction, publicize concepts of legal construction, and boost legal construction for the capital market. To adhere to the guideline for running the periodical and control its academic level in an all-round way, 23 top experts and professors in the law field of the capital market are invited to constitute an academic advisory committee and an editing committee. The "On Securities Laws", an academic periodical sponsored by the SSE, set from the very beginning an idea of running the periodical by combining academic research with practice, and giving consideration to both reality and foresight. It pays high attention to the reform and development as well as the legal construction of the Chinese capital market, studies the legislation, regulation and enforcement, as well as justice in the capital market, and analyzes the key points, hot issues, and thorny problems in the legal construction of the capital market.   　　Since its founding in 2009, the "On Securities Laws" has published 10 volumes, 15 books, 348 theses, and 6,276,000 words. The authors of the periodical came from the theoretic circle and the practical circle as well, including 168 person-times from the famous colleges and institutions both at home and abroad and 148 person-times from the legislation bodies, justice organs, securities regulators, and market participants. The periodical has become very influential in the law field of the capital market after 5 year’s efforts, and it was selected as one of the CSSCI periodicals by the China Social Sciences Research Center early in 2014.   　　The experts present at the symposium held that unlike traditional academic periodicals, the "On Securities Laws" gives consideration to domestic practices, refers to overseas experience, and solves realistic problems. The periodical has got academic reputation and practical influence in a relatively short term, as the SSE has attached much importance to propelling the legal construction of the capital market, pooled top experts in both the theoretic circle and the practical circle, and built the important platform for studying the legal construction of the capital market. The high-quality research subjects put forward by the periodical have provided theoretic fundamentals for the amendment to and the improvement of the “Securities Law” as well as the legal construction of the capital market. The mode of running the periodical could be summarized as one forum, one periodical, one batch of experts, and one think-tank, which was put forward by the SSE. Besides, the theoretic circle and the practical circle have benefited a lot from relevant studies.   　　The experts also gave an array of suggestions on improving the "On Securities Laws", which involved presenting new ideas and implementing new measures on the basis of giving full play to good traditions.   　　Xu Ming concluded that the "On Securities Laws" would continuously inherit the principle and idea of founding the periodical, adhere to the periodical’s features, enhance its quality, expand the research scope, and optimize the way of running it, in a bid to contribute more to the capital market and the relevant legal construction. Consistent supports from all walks of life would be expected.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Soliciting Public Opinions on “Pre-disclosure Issues (Draft Version for Opinion Soliciting) of Shareholding Lessening by Shareholders of Listed Companies* ”
22 Jul 2014
　　* for No. 13 Memorandum on Listed Companies’ Work of Day-to-day Information Disclosure   　　All market participants,   　　The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the “Pre-disclosure Issues (Draft Version for Opinion Soliciting) of Shareholding Lessening by Shareholders of Listed Companies for No. 13 Memorandum on Listed Companies’ Work of Day-to-day Information Disclosure”, in order to implement the requirements of the “Opinions of the General Office of the State Council on Further Strengthening the Protection of Small and Medium-sized Investors’ Legitimate Rights and Interests in the Capital Market”, protect the legitimate rights and interests of small and medium-sized investors, and regulate the pre-disclosure issues of shareholding lessening by shareholders of listed companies.   　　The SSE hereby solicits public opinions on the draft version (see the Attachment for the draft version for opinion soliciting).   　　Please send your opinions or suggestions to the SSE in written form or by e-mail before August 5, 2014.   　　Contact methods   　　Fax: 021-68811782, E-mail: listing@sse.com.cn   　　Mailing address: SSE Department I of Listed Companies Supervision, Shanghai Stock Exchange Building, 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　  July 22, 2014

Q & A on Delisting System Reform
04 Jul 2014
　　The draft for comment on the “Opinions on Reform, Improvement and Implementation of the Delisting System of Listed Companies” (the “Opinions” for short) was released by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) on July 4, 2014. Revisions were made to the “SSE Stock Listing Rules” by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) to carry out the “Opinions”, with public opinions solicited as well. Recently, an official of the SSE replied to questions on how to improve and implement the delisting system.   　　I. Compared with the previous delisting system, major reform and improvement have been made this time. What’s the fundamental principle of this reform?   　　The delisting system, a fundamental system in the capital market, is essential in such aspects as improving the quality of listed companies and the elimination mechanism, and rationally allocating the market resources. The “Opinions” has developed general planning and made top-level design for the reform, improvement, and implementation of the delisting system in the new market environment, and it has given clear requirements for the SSE to organize and implement the delisting work. The rationality of the delisting system’s reform and improvement is reflected in the following 4 aspects:   　　a. It could meet the new changes in the construction of the multi-layer capital market. The pattern and environment of China’s capital market have undergone fundamental changes. The construction of the multi-layer capital market is in the steady progress, and the segmentation and positioning of different market levels such as the Main Board, the SME Board, the Growth Enterprise Board, and the New Third Board as well as regional equity markets are all the more clear, increasing the possibility of enriching the content and type of delisting. For instance, enterprises will have a stronger will to make active choices among different markets in a multi-layer capital market, and delisting will be no longer the only standard of judging an enterprise, which provides foundation and space to establish a flexible delisting system.   　　b. It could drive the liberalization, legalization and normalization of delisting. The delisting of listed companies, a tough issue in China’s capital market, always encounters resistances and conflicts. The “Opinions” spent great effort in two aspects: enriching the content of delisting and reducing the difficulties of delisting in accordance with the “Some Opinions of the State Council on Further Propelling Sound Growth of the Capital Market”. The design of related regulations realized the organic fusion of liberalization, legalization and normalization with clear internal logic and reasonable policies.   　　c. It could enhance the implementation of the delisting system. The “Opinions” is characterized by its strict implementation. On the one hand, enterprises with such malignant issues as fraud issuance and illegal disclosure of significant information would be forced to be delisted, and the requirements on suspension and termination of listing are clarified. On the other hand, the arrangement and implementation of delisting are all the more clear and detailed. Enhanced implementation and market anticipation increased the operability and solemnity of the delisting system.   　　d. it could protect the rights and interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors. The reform this time sticks to the line of protecting the rights and interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors, which is carried through the system design process. Targeted measures have been taken for such aspects as decision-making process, information disclosure, risk disclosure and accountability, which fully demonstrate the protection of investors’ rights and interests.   　　II. What are the major adjustments in this reform?   　　The “Opinions” is developed on the basis of discussion and consideration of the delisting system reform in 2012. The major adjustments to the delisting system this time are reflected in two aspects: one is the improvement of self-delisting rules, and the other is that compulsive delisting will be applied to companies with severe illegal acts.   　　In a mature capital market, it is common for companies to choose to be listed or delisted according to their needs, and this is gradually accepted by our capital market. Some listed companies would prefer to be delisted, go to other boards, or change their listing locations based on their development strategies and considerations of reasonable valuation, stable control and cost-effectiveness. The reform this time defined various situations where listed companies would choose to be delisted according to their own needs by taking into consideration and protecting the willingness of market participants. This follows the future trends of the capital market and meets the potential needs of listed companies.   　　For the situation that listed companies with severe illegal acts that damage the interests of investors could not be delisted, the new delisting system incorporates two situations where these companies would be forced to be delisted: fraud issuance during IPO and illegal disclosure of significant information after listing, since these two situations could generate extreme negative effects in the market, damaging investors’ interests as well as the market development. Compulsive delisting is a response to the market’s sentiment.   　　In addition, the delisting system reform added market-oriented standard of delisting, and made proper adjustments to such issues as conditions for re-listing.   　　III. What are the duties of stock exchanges in the delisting work?   　　According to the “Opinions”, a stock exchange is the subject of liabilities in carrying out the delisting system, and guiding opinions are offered on how to carry out the delisting system. In the meantime, the delisting work should be monitored by the CSRC, defining the border of self-regulation and administrative regulation, which is consistent with existing securities laws and regulations and regulatory practices. According to the “Securities Law”, a stock exchange, as the organizer and the manager of the securities market, should develop specific standards for suspension and resumption of listing and re-listing of listed companies and carry them out. The delisting work is highly policy-related, comprehensive, systematic, and complicated according to practices of securities regulation, so it requires the stock exchange to carry it out under the overall planning and guidance of the CSRC.   　　According to the “Opinions”, a stock exchange should undertake three major responsibilities in the delisting work: first, it should develop listing rules and affiliated rules and optimize, adjust and improve each prescription of delisting in accordance with laws and regulations as well as the “Opinions”; second, it should carry out the delisting system strictly, review and make decisions in accordance with laws and regulations for listed companies that meet such situations as listing suspension, listing resumption, delisting, and re-listing; third, it should urge delisted companies to disclose accurate and complete delisting information on time.   　　IV. What are specific arrangements for voluntary delisting in the “SSE Stock Listing Rules"?   　　There are 3 arrangements for voluntary delisting as follows:   　　First, it defines specific situations and decision-making processes. 7 situations are defined according to different bodies and patterns of voluntary delisting, such as voluntary delisting through a resolution made at the Shareholders’ Meeting, repurchase, acquisition, company merger, and voluntary disincorporation. In the meantime, different decision-making processes and requirements of suspension and resumption of trading are defined according to different types of voluntary delisting.   　　Second, it adds details to requirements for information disclosure and arrangements for delisted companies. A company would be required to disclose its voluntary delisting progress at different time points, and the disclosure should focus on investor protection and related arrangements after delisting. Besides, companies that choose voluntary delisting could choose to be traded or transferred on stock exchanges, or to make other arrangements according to laws and regulations.   　　Third, it defines a stock exchange’s review and implementation procedures. Explicit prescriptions are made on review, decision-making, and delisting procedures of voluntary delisting on a stock exchange, including the time limit of review and decision-making, the key points of the review of the listing examination committee, time of delisting, and so on.   　　V. What are the specific regulations for compulsory delisting due to major illegal acts in the “SSE Stock Listing Rules"?   　　The rules include 3 aspects:   　　First, it defines situations applicable to compulsory delisting triggered by major illegal acts. Fraud issuance and illegal disclosure of significant information, which have been recognized by the market as major illegal acts, have been defined as situations applicable to compulsory delisting.   　　Second, it defines delisting procedures for the above situations. A clear implementation procedure has been developed for compulsory delisting triggered by major illegal acts. After being identified as fraud issuance or illegal disclosure of significant information, relevant listed companies would enter into the following procedure, namely, delisting risk alert, listing suspension and delisting, with clear time points of each section and objective standards provided as well. Since the previous version of the former “SSE Stock Listing Rules” has given explicit definition on exchanges’ review procedures, no adjustment has been made this time.   　　Third, it adds requirements for relevant information disclosure. There are clear requirements for listed companies’ information disclosure obligation according to major time points during the process of compulsory delisting triggered by major illegal acts, including the time of information disclosure, requirements of announcement content, procedures for trading suspension or resumption, as well as risk alerts to investors.   　　VI. What’s the concern for adding delisting risk alert for delisting triggered by serious illegal acts in this reform?   　　It is based on the consideration that for listed companies, the time point of listing suspension triggered by serious illegal acts could be accidental and sudden. Before being identified as conducting fraud issuance or illegal disclosure of significant information, relevant listed company’s delisting risk is uncertain, and it could not be predicted by the market beforehand. Therefore, the immediate listing suspension or delisting could not offer necessary buffer to investors, especially small and medium-sized investors. As a result, we developed delisting risk alert by referring to the existing delisting system, so as to enable investors to retreat from the market. The shares in relevant company could be traded for another 30 trading days after a delisting risk alert is imposed on the company from the day when the CSRC makes a decision of administrative penalty or transfer.   　　VII. What is the adjustment to application conditions for re-listing in the “SSE Stock Listing Rules"?   　　The re-listing of delisted companies, an important supporting system, is a key method to dredge the delisting channel and release the delisting pressure. The 2012 delisting system reform developed re-listing conditions according to a standard that is higher than that of back-door listing yet lower than that of IPO, providing a relatively easy way for delisted companies to return to exchange-based markets.   　　This standard represented our intention to protect investors’ interests in the current market situation. However, the market worried that the re-listing conditions, which are lower than those of IPO, could trigger malicious or careless delisting, leading to regulatory arbitrage, and imposing negative effects in the capital market development and the protection of small and medium-sized investors. Given the fact that the conditions for building a transfer mechanism among various markets are available in China, and there are various ways to protect investors’ interests, the delisting reform this time made further adjustment to re-listing conditions, requiring that the major indicators in re-listing should be equivalent to those of IPO.   　　In addition, a line was drawn between the present and the past to stabilize the market sentiment in accordance with the principle of non-retroactivity, offering a 36-month transition period to companies that were already delisted before the revised “SSE Stock Listing Rules" comes into effect. The re-listing conditions in the previous “SSE Stock Listing Rules" would still be valid during the transition period.   　　VIII. What are the arrangements specially made to protect investors in this delisting system reform?   　　The protection of investors, especially the lawful rights and interests of small and medium-sized investors, is the theme of this reform, and we have detailed policies in each section of delisting, which could be represented in 5 aspects:   　　First, it strengthens the internal decision-making procedures of companies which want to carry out voluntary delisting. For a company deciding to be delisted upon the resolution of shareholders’ meeting, that resolution should be agreed by no less than 2/3 of all shareholders and public shareholders to prevent malicious delisting, which could damage the interests of small and medium-sized shareholders.   　　Second, it establishes a special mechanism for re-listing of companies with illegal disclosure of significant information. By taking into consideration of interests of small and medium-sized shareholders, we prescribe that companies that are forced to be delisted due to illegal disclosure of significant information could submit re-listing applications to the SSE if they have made corrections, replaced related responsible persons, and made proper arrangements of civil compensations before the SSE makes a decision of delisting.   　　Third, it enhances the stakeholder-related constraint mechanism for major illegal acts. It is clearly defined that for fraud issuance or illegal disclosure of significant information during IPO and refinancing, the responsible parties of companies should promise to stop transferring their shares once these companies are being investigated, and relevant implementation procedures are also defined.   　　Fourth, it promotes the protection mechanism for dissident shareholders and civil compensation. It is clearly defined that companies which want to carry out voluntary delisting should make such special arrangements as repurchase request right and cash option for dissident shareholders. For companies with major illegal acts, their responsible parties would be required to compensate the losses of investors according to rules and regulations or previous promises.   　　IX. What are the inspirations of the delisting of *ST Changyou (Nanjing Tanker Corporation) to this delisting system reform?   　　After finishing the trading during the delisting arrangement term, *ST Changyou was delisted by the SSE on June 4, 2014. It is the first state-owned key enterprise to be delisted from the securities market of China, and it is the first company that is subject to new rules in 2012 and be delisted after finishing the trading during the delisting arrangement term. Its delisting attracted many market attentions. Generally speaking, the delisting process was stable and in good order, setting up a new sample for the delisting system’s improvement.   　　Its delisting has brought inspirations to the delisting system reform in 3 aspects: first, the delisting system must be equal to all listed companies and should be carried out strictly. The case about *ST Changyou showed to the market and investors that listed companies would be delisted as long as they trigger the delisting standards, regardless of their sizes and ownerships. Second, the delisting work must be carried out according to laws and regulations. Take this case, the SSE made a decision of delisting in accordance with procedures in the “SSE Stock Listing Rules", and ensured the monitoring process open and transparent, receiving understandings and recognition of the market and investors. Third, delisting should be carried out through close cooperation among departments. In this case, the CSRC, the relevant securities regulatory bureau, the exchange, and the local government cooperated closely to facilitate the delisting work.   　　X. What are the arrangements in the transition of the delisting system reform, as well as in follow-up work?   　　According to the “Opinions”, the new delisting system will become effective on the day of issuance of the revised “SSE Stock Listing Rules". After the issuance, relevant rules on compulsory delisting would be applicable to listed companies punished or investigated by relevant public security organs due to their illegal acts. That is to say, the new delisting rules will prevail if the illegal acts of companies occurred before the revision of the listing rules, yet they are identified after the revised version comes into effect. This arrangement is based on the consideration that major illegal acts could have a heavy blow on the market confidence, casting great impacts to listed companies, investors, and stakeholders. Therefore, tough regulations should be adopted to maintain market credibility and establish investors’ confidence.   　　For the follow-up work, the SSE will collect public opinions through various means under the guidance of the CSRC, and will finish the revised version of the “SSE Stock Listing Rules" and submit it to the CSRC for approval before issuing. The SSE will also revise supporting business rules to ensure the implementation of various detailed arrangements.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Soliciting Public Opinions on “SSE Stock Listing Rules (with Delisting Part Revised in 2014)”
04 Jul 2014
　　In order to give full play to the role of the delisting mechanism for listed companies, improve the functions of the capital market, and protect the rights and interests of investors, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), according to the China Securities Regulatory Commission’s “Some Opinions (Draft) on Reforming, Improving, and Strictly Implementing Delisting System for Listed Companies”, has amended relevant contents involving the delisting system in the “SSE Stock Listing Rules”, drawn up the draft of the “SSE Stock Listing Rules (with Delisting Part Revised in 2014)”, and formulated remarks on relevant revisions and the check-list of revised provisions (see attachments). The SSE hereby solicits public opinions on relevant documents.   　　Please send your opinions or suggestions on the draft to the SSE in written form or by e-mail before August 3, 2014.   　　Mailing address: SSE Department I of Listed Companies Supervision, 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120   　　Fax: 021-68811782   　　E-mail: listing@sse.com.cn   　　　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　       　   July 4, 2014

SSE Sorts out Issues for Examination and Registration to Promote Self-regulatory Transformation
02 Jul 2014
　　Recently, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has completely sorted out relevant tasks in implementation of examination and registration for market participants in self-regulation, and released a list for issues related to examination and registration, as well as guidelines for handling relevant business lines to the market. This sorting-out work is one of the SSE’s key measures in enhancing quality, efficiency and transparency of self-regulation and service work, according to the requirement of “Promoting Transformation of Regulation on Securities and Futures” put forward by the “Some Opinions of the State Council on Further Propelling Sound Growth of the Capital Market”.   　　As a self-regulatory administrative organization in the securities market, the SSE, though not equipped with the authority for administrative permission, also deals with some issues in examinations and registrations with influence on the rights and obligations of market participants. Generally speaking, the registration issues are clearly specified according to the regulations of the China Securities Regulatory Commission and the SSE’s business rules. The registration issues aim at checking the completeness of applications of market participants, and confirming that market participants with required conditions could deal with some business lines, or have certain qualifications or authorities. After this sorting-out, the SSE has clarified 12 issues in 4 categories for examination and 21 issues in 7 categories for registration in its self-regulation. All the relevant issues cover all sides in the SSE’s market organization and administration. Issues for examination mainly center on listing of securities and member admission, and issues for registration focus on preliminary confirmation for several issues in information disclosure, trading, and transfer business.   　　According to the requirements for simplifying issues for examination and changing concepts for regulation, the SSE has adjusted the former issues for examination, such as “Relevant Business of Trading Units”, “Revoking Risk Alert”, “Preliminary Check for Information Disclosure”, and “Equity Transfer”, to issues for registration in this sorting-out. Besides, the SSE has canceled the former issues for registration, including “Listing and Floating of Shares with Sales Limit”, “Subscription and Redemption for Funds”, “Equity Division Reform”, “Trading Suspension or Resumption”, “Newly Listing of Shares by Listed Companies”, “Granting and Exercise of Stock Options and Restricted Shares”, and “Qualification for Primary Dealer in Block Trading System”. In the future, the above 7 issues will be handled as business lines in market services. The SSE, through simplifying and adjusting issues for examination and registration, aims at enhancing efficiency in self-regulation and strengthening the concept of market services.   　　In order to facilitate market participants to handle relevant business lines, according to the result of this sorting-out and appraisal, the SSE has formulated and released the “SSE List for Issues for Examination and Registration”, and the “SSE Guidelines for Handling Issues for Examination and Registration”, which have clearly listed the rules, departments, conditions and documents, procedures and deadlines for handling the aforementioned issues, greatly enhanced transparency, standardization, and convenience in handling these business lines. Market participants could make inquiries through the column of “Issues for Examination and Registration” on the SSE’s website, prepare relevant documents, and submit them for handling relevant issues according to the requirements.   　　Over recent years, the SSE has attached great importance to sorting out and standardizing the self-regulation business rules and issues, and promoting the transformation and transparency of regulation. This sorting-out and appraisal work, based on the SSE’s overall sorting-out and appraisal of business rules over the years, is an all-round sorting-out and regulation of issues involved in market admission to be implemented for market participants. Later, the SSE will regularly sort out relevant issues, timely update issues and handling procedures for examination and registration, build a long-term mechanism for improving appraisal on and adjustment to issues for examination and registration, constantly promote the transformation of self-regulation, and continue to enhance effectiveness, pertinence and transparency in self-regulation and relevant services.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Credit Assets Backed Securities Product Listed on SSE
25 Jun 2014
　　On June 25, Ping An Bank No. 1 Petty Consumer Loan Assets Backed Securities were listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), with listed product varieties being 01 level in class A (“14 Ping An 01”), 02 level in class A (“14 Ping An 02”), and class B (“14 Ping An 03”).   　　The Ping An Credit Assets Backed Securities listed and traded on the SSE are registered and held in custody at China Government Securities Depository Trust & Clearing Co., Ltd. (CDC). This symbolizes the debut of product of credit asset securitization on the SSE market, a great progress made in terms of the expanded pilot of credit asset securitization in China, and a great leap forward for the interflow of the bond markets. After the listing of Ping An Credit Assets Backed Securities, financial institutions, wealth management products issued by financial institutions, QFIIs/RQFIIs, and non-financial-institution legal persons meeting the requirements of suitability management for investors in credit assets backed securities may all participate in trading on the secondary market of the SSE.   　　Listing and trading of Ping An Credit Assets Backed Securities on the SSE’s market meets the requirements of relevant authorities in implementing the “Guiding Opinions on Economic Restructuring, Transformation, and Upgrading Supported by Finance” issued by the State Council and the decision on further expanding the pilot of credit asset securitization and the listing of quality credit assets backed securities on exchanges made at the Executive Meeting of the State Council, which will effectively facilitate the interflow of the bond markets, promote the development of the market for credit asset securitization, help enlarge the investor groups for credit assets backed securities, disperse risks in the banking system, and vitalize funds to support micro and small enterprises’ growth and adjustments to the economic structure. As credit assets backed securities are only issued and traded on the interbank market before, the China Banking Regulatory Commission and the China Securities Regulatory Commission regard listing of credit assets backed securities on exchanges as one of the key tasks for expanding the pilot of credit asset securitization, and guide the SSE and CDC to confirm the schemes and business rules for the pilot, as well as launch the pilot in order.   　　According to relevant documents, the total size of Ping An Bank No. 1 Petty Consumer Loan Assets Backed Securities is RMB2.631 billion. The product has 3 levels: 01 level in class A, 02 level in class A, and class B, with the issuance lines respectively up to RMB1.21 billion (45.99%), RMB1.341 billion (50.97%), and RMB79,855,239 (3.04%). 01 level in class A and 02 level in class A will be issued publicly by means of book building. According to the issuance result, the coupon rates for 01 level in class A and 02 level in class A are 5.30% and 5.60% respectively, with the subscription ratios being 1.5 and 1.38 respectively, meeting the expectation of the market and the current interest rate. Judging from the subscription, non-bank institutions play an active part in the subscription, with a rapid increase in proportion. This suggests that a diversified investor structure on the SSE market will facilitate “moving out of the balance sheet” of credit assets and risk dispersion, so as to promote sound growth of the market for credit asset securitization.   　　According to an official of the SSE, the SSE will launch the pilot of issuance and trading of credit assets backed securities, and encourage listing and trading of more quality credit assets backed securities on exchange. Besides, with the guidance of relevant authorities, the SSE will improve the mechanisms for issuance and trading of credit assets backed securities, make all-round preparation, and promote the expanded pilot of credit asset securitization, in a bid to better the interflow of the bond markets in China.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Q&A on “Notice of Providing Transfer Services for Bonds in Listing Suspension”
19 Jun 2014
　　Recently, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has released the “Notice of Providing Transfer Services for Bonds in Listing Suspension” (the “Notice” for short), in order to maintain and promote the stable development of the bond market, and protect the legal rights and interests of investors. An SSE official answered questions raised by journalists concerning the “Notice”.   　　Q: Please give us a brief introduction of the backdrop for releasing the “Notice”? 　　A: Presently, as many bond issuers have suffered continuous losses for recent 2 years, listing and trading of these bonds are sanctioned by the SSE to be suspended, according to Article 6.2 in the "SSE Corporate Bonds Listing Rules". As listing and trading suspension of bonds will last for at least one year, halting the transfer services may restrain reasonable needs of some investors, as well as their rights in freely choosing financial consumptions. In regard to this, the SSE will provide transfer services for bonds in listing suspension through the SSE comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities (the platform of fixed income for short), with Shanghai Branch of China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd. providing non-guaranteed delivery. As bonds in listing suspension are featured with low liquidity and high risks, the system of investor suitability management will be implemented for transfer of such bonds.   　　Q: Please briefly introduce the “Notice” to us. 　　A: There are a total of 10 articles in the “Notice”, which specify an array of issues as follows. First, relevant procedures for bond listing suspension. Second, requirements on relevant procedures in application for the transfer services by a bond issuer and how the SSE decides upon whether to provide such services or not, after the bond listing is suspended. Third, requirements on making announcements by the bond issuer. Fourth, requirements on investor suitability management. Fifth, channels and requirements for investors to participate in the transfer business. Sixth, responsibilities of the SSE’s members on client management. Seventh, punishment measures against breaking the “Notice” or other rules.   　　Q: Is there any restriction on issuer’s application qualification for the transfer services? 　　A: All issuers of bonds in listing suspension are eligible to apply for transfer services for their bonds in listing suspension to the SSE. However, the SSE will take into account all-round conditions including information disclosure, contract fulfillment, rating, and the reason for listing suspension, and it will only agree to provide such transfer services for bond issuers with sound creditability and without major law-breaking behaviors.   　　Q: How to judge “bond issuer’s continuous losses for recent 2 years”? 　　The main reason for bond listing suspension presently is the bond issuer’s continuous losses for recent 2 years. According to relevant regulations, the SSE decides that, since the day when the “Notice” is issued, the starting point of “continuous losses for recent 2 years” will be calculated from the year when the first annual report is disclosed by the bond issuer after the day when the bonds are first listed. This standard is one of non-retroactivity. This means, from the year the first annual report is disclosed by the bond issuer after the day when the bonds are first listed, if the issuer’s audited net profits belonging to the parent company in the recent 2 fiscal years are negative or remain negative upon retrospective restatement, the regulation on “the company’s continuous losses for recent 2 years” in Item 5 of Article 6.2 in the "SSE Corporate Bonds Listing Rules" will be applicable, and the SSE will decide to suspend listing and trading of the bonds concerned.   　　Q: What are the requirements for investor suitability management? 　　A: In order to ward off risks on the bond market, the SSE will implement the system of investor suitability management when providing transfer services for bonds in listing suspension. On one hand, holders of the bonds before listing suspension may participate in the transfer business as the remising party. On the other hand, the receiving party participating in the transfer business for the bonds in listing suspension should meet the requirements for legal persons and other organizations as professional investors as stipulated in the regulations for investor suitability management on the SSE’s bond market.   　　This means, the receiving party must be professional investors meeting the stipulations in Article 7 and Article 9 in the “SSE Provisional Measures on Investor Suitability Management in Bond Market”. Professional investors here should meet requirements for either of the following 2 situations:   　　The investors owning or leasing the trading business units set up in the SSE will be counted as professional investors automatically; or   　　Legal persons or other organizations meeting the following requirements may apply for the qualification as professional investors:   　　(1) With net assets totaled no less than RMB1 million;   　　(2) With net assets in securities account totaled no less than RMB0.5 million;   　　(3) Relevant business personnel equipped with fundamental knowledge for bond investment and having passed relevant tests;   　　(4) With a record of at least 10 successful bond transactions for the recent 3 years;   　　(5) Having signed the "Risk Disclosure Statement for Professional Investors on Bond Market" with relevant member and made promises;   　　(6) With no bad credit records.   　　Q: What deserves the attention of small and medium-sized investors when participating in such transfer activities? 　　A: The SSE will provide transfer services for bonds in listing suspension through the SSE’s platform of fixed income. According to relevant regulations, users of this platform should hold the qualification as dealers, which mainly consist of the SSE’s members, as well as fund and insurance companies.   　　As brokerage clients of the SSE’s members, small and medium-sized investors meeting the requirements of the investor suitability management should entrust the SSE’s members with participating in the transfer business of bonds in trading suspension. The securities companies will submit the application through the platform of fixed income. The methods for application and trading should meet relevant rules on securities transfer through the SSE’s platform of fixed income.   　　Small and medium-sized investors should fully understand that, bonds in trading suspension are featured with high risks, which may result in defaults in repayment of principals and interests. Although the SSE will provide transfer services for bonds in listing suspension according to relevant circumstances, as the liquidity of such bonds is quite weak, investors may face an array of restrictions on price bargaining, and it may be difficult to find a counter party both meeting the standard for investor suitability management and having the willingness to receive. Considering all this, small and medium-sized investors are warned against blindly buying bonds in listing suspension or with risks of listing suspension for the mere reason of low prices. Instead, investors should pay close attention to relevant information about the bonds, make independent, prudent, and proper investment decisions according to their own abilities in undertaking risks, and assume investment risks independently.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Supported by SSE Detailed Rules, Exchangeable Bonds to Pilot Soon
18 Jun 2014
　　The exchangeable bond is a kind of corporate bond issued by an issuer with its shares in a listed company as collateral and exchanging target. A bondholder can exchange bonds held by it into shares in the listed company within a certain term according to stipulated conditions.   　　The release of the “Detailed Rules” by the SSE and the previous announcement on issuance intention of Baosteel Group symbolize that public issuance of exchangeable bonds is to be launched soon.   　　Lately, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has released the “Detailed Rules of Implementing Business of Exchangeable Corporate Bonds” (the “Detailed Rules” for short), which specifies listing and trading, information disclosure, and exchanging bonds into shares on the SSE for the exchangeable bonds publically issued by listed companies’ shareholders. A new channel has been provided for shareholders to vitalize their shares in listed companies.   　　Public issuance of exchangeable bonds to be launched soon   　　According to the notice released by New China Life Insurance (NCI) in April, NCI’s shareholder Baosteel Group plans to take some of its A shares in NCI as the target and publically issue exchangeable corporate bonds. The release of the “Detailed Rules” by the SSE and the previous announcement on issuance intention of Baosteel Group symbolize that public issuance of exchangeable bonds is to be launched soon.   　　According to the “Trial Rules of Issuing Exchangeable Corporate Bonds by Shareholders of Listed Companies” of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, exchangeable bond is a kind of corporate bond issued by an issuer with its shares in a listed company as collateral and exchanging target. A bondholder can exchange bonds held by it into shares in the listed company within a certain term according to stipulated conditions.   　　Exchangeable bonds and convertible corporate bonds have some similarities. On the one hand, they have similar bond elements, such as coupon rate, maturity, and share-swap price and period; on the other hand, like convertible bonds, investing value of exchangeable bonds is related to the performance of relevant listed company and exchangeable bonds can be swapped into target shares at an agreed price.   　　Their differences are as follows: first, issuing bodies are different. The former is shareholders of listed companies, and the latter is listed companies; second, sources of swapped shares differ from each other. The former is shares in other companies held by an issuer, and the latter is the new shares to be issued in the future by an issuer; third, their influences on the total issued shares of a target company are different, as swap of convertible bonds into shares will enlarge the total issued shares of the issuer and dilute the earnings per share, while swap of exchangeable bonds into shares will not.   　　Little influence on price of target shares   　　The SSE has made following arrangements in terms of the listing and trading of exchangeable bonds to actively promote the development of exchangeable bond products. First, net price trading is adopted for exchangeable bonds; second, more space is left for the collateralized repo and financing of the exchangeable bonds that meet relevant repo standards; third, investors’ bond trading and share-swap right are not directly restricted unless the bonds trading should be suspended or the swap of bonds into shares should be temporarily suspended when trading of the shares for exchange is suspended or defects of the right appear and affect the share swap; fourth, convertible bonds have the minimum circulation value of RMB30 million, but the “Detailed Rules” does not limit the minimum circulation value for exchangeable bonds, presenting a more flexible product design.   　　At the same time, the “Detailed Rules” intensifies the requirements of disclosing special risks of exchangeable bonds to strengthen risk prevention. The first is to require the issuer to designate a special liaison for information disclosure; the second is to add in the regular information disclosure all previous adjustments or revisions of share-swap prices and the accumulative share swap circumstances after the bonds issuance; the third is to require the issuer to timely conduct provisional information disclosure when adjusting or revising share-swap prices or when the shares for exchange receive a risk alert or their listing is suspended and terminated; the fourth is to clarify relevant responsibilities of the trustees. Besides, the issuer is required to timely supplement the shares when the number of exchangeable shares is insufficient due to the adjustment or revision of share-swap prices according to the provisions of the prospectus.   　　Market participants said that listed companies’ shareholders can get a long-term solution to vitalizing their equity asset and further enhance asset utilization efficiency by issuing exchangeable bonds. According to the analysis of market participants, the pilot of the exchangeable bonds business will have little influence on the prices of the secondary stock market. First, as shares for exchange are floating shares without sales limit when exchangeable bonds are issued, they will not increase the supply of target shares. Second, as share-swap price of exchangeable bonds has a relatively higher premium than relevant benchmark price, share-swap at high price will have little influence on the secondary market. Finally, exchangeable bonds can be exchanged into shares 12 months after its issuance, which will effectively relieve the direct impact on the stock trading price. A bondholder has the final decision on whether to exchange into shares, and investors will only choose to exchange into shares when they have a good expectation toward their held shares.   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

Q&A on “Notice of Relevant Issues for Imposing Risk Alerts on Corporate Bonds” and “Notice of Amending Article 6 of ‘SSE Interim Measures for Investor Suitability Management of Bond Market’”
17 Jun 2014
　　The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) recently issued the “Notice of Relevant Issues for Imposing Risk Alerts on Corporate Bonds” (the “Notice of Risk Alerts” for short) and the “Notice of Amending Article 6 of ‘SSE Interim Measures for Investor Suitability Management of Bond Market’” (the “Notice of Amending Measures” for short), in a bid to propel the standardized growth of the corporate bond market, and protect legal rights and interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized ones. An official of the SSE answered the following questions about the two notices in an interview.   　　Q: Please introduce the backdrop for the promulgation of the above two notices.   　　A: The SSE corporate bond market has experienced gradual development in recent years, with the number and volume of listed bonds both reaching new highs. Meanwhile, the market and the regulatory authority have attached more importance to credit risks of corporate bonds, and relevant sides are exploring and perfecting regulatory measures on preventing credit risks. Upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the SSE, according to market conditions, has formulated the “Notice of Risk Alerts” to impose risk alerts on some companies with certain potential risks, with a final aim of maintaining the normal order of the bond market and preventing the spread of corporate bonds’ credit risks to small and medium-sized investors with vulnerable risk tolerance.   　　Recently, China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. (SD&C) has decreased the discount coefficient of standard bonds for some corporate bonds according to Item 7 of Article 6 in the “Management Measures on Conversion Ratio of Standard Bonds (Amended in 2013)”. The SSE has always attached importance to bond risks resulted from pledge of corporate bonds, and it has amended some articles of the “SSE Interim Measures for Investor Suitability Management of Bond Market” (the “Interim Measures” for short) to prevent the spread of relevant risks to small and medium-sized investors with vulnerable risk tolerance. The amended “Interim Measures” has re-stipulated the scope of the corporate bonds that ordinary investors can invest in, so as to conform to relevant stipulations of pledged bonds made by SD&C.   　　Q: Please introduce the main contents of the two notices.   　　A: The “Notice of Risk Alerts” has 15 articles, which specify the standards for risk-alert bonds, risk-alert measures, procedures for imposing risk alerts, issuers’ information disclosure obligation, member units’ duties, exchange’s regulatory measures, conditions for revoking risk alerts, and sanction measures for violating the “Notice of Risk Alerts”.   　　The “Notice of Amending Measures” only amends Article 6 of the “Interim Measures” by imposing more restrictions on the scope of the corporate bonds that ordinary investors can invest in, so as to control risks.   　　Q: What effects will the “Notice of Risk Alerts” exert on the secondary market?   　　A: The “Notice of Risk Alerts” is a supplementation to the existing arrangement for the SSE’s bond trading system. Given the conditions of the existing bonds on the SSE, few bonds will involve risk alerts according to the “Notice of Risk Alerts”. Thus, the implementation of the risk alert measures has limited influence on the bond market. In a long run, formulation and implementation of relevant systems will contribute to protecting rights and interest of individual investors and propelling the sound growth of the bond market.   　　Besides, to minimize the market influence of the “Notice of Risk Alerts” after its release, the time for implementing the notice will not start from its release day, but is on a certain date as specified in the notice. In addition, relevant circumstances listed in Article 1 of the notice will not have retrospective effects, that is, risk alerts will not be imposed on the corporate bonds which involved such circumstances before the implementation of the notice.   　　Q: Please explain the credit rating in Item 1 of Article 1 in the “Notice of Risk Alerts”.   　　A: The credit rating mentioned here is facility rating of bonds, excluding corporate rating of bond issuer. A risk alert will be imposed on the corporate bond traded in the auction trading system whose facility rating is below AA.   　　Q: How can we judge the bonds with double ratings as rating is mentioned in both of the two notices?   　　A: If a bond has two ratings, the lower facility rating or corporate rating at the same time point will prevail.   　　Q: Please explain about the timing method of the starting point for calculation involved in Item 2 of Article I in the “Notice of Risk Alerts”.   　　A: Briefly speaking, based on “this year”, the “last fiscal year” means the “last year”, and “the year before the last fiscal year” refers to “the year before the last year”. In the situation involved in this clause, the listed company concerned is recorded with loss for “the year before the last year”, and the prediction on the financial report issued “this year” also indicates loss for the “last year”. As for timing method of the starting point for calculation, in principle, “the year before the last year” should not be regarded earlier than the year of the first annual report disclosed after the listing of the corporate bonds.   　　For example:   　　Listed in February 2014, corporate bonds A are recorded with loss in its first annual report after listing (namely, the annual report for 2013), which was disclosed in April 2014. In this case, “the year before the last year” starts from 2013. If loss is again reflected for the same corporate bonds in the prediction on the annual financial report for 2014, which is supposed to be released in January 2015, a risk alert will be imposed on the corporate bonds after release of this prediction in 2015.   　　In another case, listed in May 2014, the company issuing corporate bonds B should disclose its first annual report in 2015, with the year for the annual report being 2014. Then, “the year before the last year” should be counted as starting from 2014. In this case, the need for imposing a risk alert should be judged upon at the beginning of 2016.   　　Q: What is required of in implementation of the specified measures in the above 2 notices for the member units?   　　A: All the measures on risk alerts in the “Notice of Risk Alerts” should be implemented by the member units. This means requirements as follows:   　　First, the member units should carry out necessary investor suitability management according to the “Notice of Risk Alerts”, including verification on assets of clients and signing of the Risk Disclosure Statement.   　　Second, the member units need to be technologically prepared, in order to lay restrictions on continuing to buy bonds with risk alerts by the investors not meeting the requirements in the “Notice of Risk Alerts”.   　　Third, for the investors meeting relevant conditions and willing to continue to buy bonds with risk alerts, the member units should remind them of full and all-round risk alerts, establish and maintain data on the investors and relevant filing systems, as well as report and update the name-list and account information of relevant investors through the website of the SSE, according to the methods and channels of information report for professional bonds investors.   　　Fourth, through channels such as the business departments, company websites, and the online trading system, the member units should launch publicity and explanation for the “Notice of Risk Alerts”, inform investors of relevant arrangements for risk alerts of corporate bonds, as well as investment risks of bonds with risk alerts.   　　The “Notice of Amending Measures” further narrows down the scope of the corporate bonds that can be bought by ordinary bond investors on the basis of the “Interim Measures”, and the member units should be responsible for the implementation of relevant measures.   　　In order to provide reference for the member units to conduct suitability management and control over buying bonds with risk alerts, the SSE will send or release information about relevant suitability management and the list of cooperate bonds with risk alerts. Besides, the SSE will launch corresponding data interface, so as to help the member units to conduct linking-up for the technological system.   　　Q: When will the measures on risk alert in the “Notice of Risk Alerts” be terminated or revoked?   　　A: A measure on risk alert will be terminated automatically when listing of the corporate bonds with risk alerts is suspended or terminated. If the circumstance prescribed in Article 1 in the “Notice of Risk Alerts” no longer exists for corporate bonds with risk alerts, the issuer may apply for revoking the risk alert to the SSE. The SSE will later make a decision on whether to revoke the risk alert upon further judgment.   　　Q: Is the “Notice of Risk Alerts” applicable to bonds issued by non-listed companies or enterprises?   　　A: The “Notice of Risk Alerts” is applicable to all SSE-listed corporate bonds issued by listed companies or other corporate-system legal persons. However, it is not applicable to convertible corporate bonds or exchangeable corporate bonds listed and traded on the SSE. Besides, enterprise bonds issued by non-corporate-system legal persons and listed and traded on the SSE should abide by the “Notice of Risk Alerts”.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Adjusts Trading Mechanism, Regulatory Measures for New Shares on First Day of Listing
16 Jun 2014
　　To support implementation of the measures on the reform of new shares issuance of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) issued the “Notice of Relevant Issues of Regulation on Trading at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing” (the “Notice”) on June 13, 2014.   　　According to an SSE official, the “Notice” is mainly for the adjustments to the trading mechanisms of price control and in-session temporary trading suspension of new shares on the first day of listing stipulated in the “Notice of Toughening Supervision on Trading at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing”, as well as for the amendments to such contents as the abnormal behaviors in new shares trading and their regulatory measures.   　　Adjustments to the trading mechanisms of new shares on the first day of listing mainly include:   　　First, it revokes the control measure that “The order price in the last 5 minutes before closing should neither be higher than 120% nor lower than 80% of the opening price”, and the only control measure on order price will be that “The order price during the call auction should neither be higher than 120% nor lower than 80% of the issuance price” and that “The order price during the consecutive auction should neither be higher than 144% nor lower than 64% of the issuance price”.   　　Second, the rule of implementing the second in-session temporary trading suspension when the share price rises or falls by over 20% during trading is canceled. Instead, trading will be suspended for 30 minutes when the share price rises or falls by over 10% during trading. All this aims to solve the issue of limited time for trading of new shares on the first day of listing.   　　Besides, amendments to abnormal trading behaviors and their regulatory measures at the preliminary stage of listing of new shares (the first 10 trading days after listing) are mainly as follows:   　　First, the restriction that a single investor can buy no more than 1‰ of the actual number of new shares floating on the market on the very day is revoked.   　　Second, quantitative regulations on making orders in a large sum or at high prices, or conducting frequent orders or false orders are stipulated, in order to help investors better understand the abnormal behaviors in trading of new shares specified in the “Notice”, and self-regulate their behaviors in trading of new shares.   　　According to the SSE official, as speculations on new shares are so common on China’s securities market, the SSE will, according to the requirements of the CSRC, strengthen monitoring on behaviors in trading of new shares. Investors are reminded of rational participation in trading of new shares to avoid unnecessary losses due to blindly following the trend of speculation. As for irrational behaviors in speculations of new shares breaking the rules in the “Notice”, the SSE will take necessary self-regulatory measures according to the seriousness of the violations, or report them to the CSRC for further investigation or punishment.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Credit Assets Backed Securities Product Debuts on SSE
15 Jun 2014
　　Today, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Government Securities Depository Trust & Clearing Co., Ltd. (CDC) respectively issued the “Notice of Relevant Issues About Trading of Ping An Bank No. 1 Petty Consumer Loan Assets Backed Securities” and the “Notice of Relevant Issues About Providing Issuance Support, Registration, Custody, and Clearing Services for Ping An Bank No. 1 Petty Consumer Loan Assets Backed Securities”. Meanwhile, Ping An Bank Co., Ltd., as the sponsor, Huaneng Guicheng Trust Corporation Ltd. (Huaneng Guicheng Trust), as the issuer and the trustee, Guotai Junan Securities Co., Ltd. (Guotai Junan Securities) as the lead underwriter, jointly launched the issuance work of RMB2.631 billion credit assets backed securities in total on the SSE, which marked a debut of the credit assets backed securities product on the SSE and a major progress made in the expanded trial of credit asset securitization in China.   　　Credit asset securitization is regarded as an important instrument for currently vitalizing idle bank credit, putting vitalized capital into weak economic sectors and key economic fields, and fueling the development of the real economy. It was specified in the “Guiding Opinions on Economic Restructuring, Transformation, and Upgrading” issued by the General Office of the State Council in last July that we should gradually boost the regular growth of credit asset securitization, and vitalize capital for the development of micro and small enterprises as well as the economic restructuring. Last August, it was decided at the Executive Meeting of the State Council that the trial of credit asset securitization should be expanded, and quality products of credit asset securitization could be listed and traded on the exchange, which would not only speed up the turnover of bank capital but also provide more choices for investors. The listing and trading of Ping An Bank’s credit assets backed securities on the SSE was a vigorous move of the competent authority to implement requirements at the Executive Meeting of the State Council and expand the pilot of credit asset securitization. It will contribute to the growth of the credit asset securitization market, the diversity of the investors of credit assets backed securities, and the decentralization of the risks in the banking system. Since the pilot business of credit asset securitization in China was launched in the inter-bank market in 2005, majorities of the investors have been banks and bank wealth management products, with risks of credit assets still clustering in the banking system instead of being decentralized. Issuance and trading of quality products of credit asset securitization on the SSE could contribute to making full use of the diversified investors on the SSE, guiding funds, securities companies, insurance companies, non-financial-institution investors to subscribe for credit assets backed securities, propelling the increase of investors, and spreading risks in the banking system. Furthermore, investment preferences of various investors will be conducive to further boosting transactions and enhancing liquidity of the secondary market.   　　A market insider held that Ping An Bank’s credit assets backed securities made dramatic innovation in both selection of fundamental assets as well as issuance and trading modes, which provided a good model for the follow-up expanded trial of credit asset securitization. In addition, it explored and built a new model for the interflow of China’s bond markets and exerted a profound influence on the Chinese bond market’s long-term growth.   　　For the fundamental asset of Ping An Bank’s credit assets backed securities, the in-pool asset is petty consumer loans issued by Ping An Bank to domestic residents, which is included into an innovative fundamental assets category in the pilot of credit asset securitization. This phase of securities product has the following characteristics. First, the fundamental asset boasts good decentralization. The fundamental asset pool involves 96,187 sums of petty consumer loans from 93,021 loan borrowers. These loans in the normal category are distributed in 16 municipalities or provinces such as Guangdong, Fujian, Jiangsu, Shanghai, and Shandong with the average contract amount for a single loan up to RMB41,300 and the weighted average residual term up to 2.12 years. Besides, the loan borrowers are well decentralized as well. Second, the fundamental asset has credit and guarantee insurance. PingAn Property & Casualty Insurance Company of China, Ltd. provides credit and guarantee insurance for all the in-pool assets. When any in-pool asset breaks a contract, PingAn Insurance will repay in full amount the loan principal and interest within the time limit stipulated in relevant insurance contract. Third, an array of internal measures on credit enhancement, such as prime/sub-prime, excess spread and excess cash flow coverage, are taken to achieve a win-win situation for the sponsor and investors. Currently, China’s credit asset securitization mainly involves bank loans to enterprises and public institutions, instead of housing mortgage loans and automobile consumptive loans in the fundamental assets category. The securitization of Ping An Bank petty consumer loans not only increases a fundamental assets category for China’s credit asset securitization, but also explores a new business mode for expanding the individual consumption business of commercial banks and increasing the consuming capacity of residents.   　　For the arrangement for the issuance regulation, this phase of securities product abandoned the former double-examination system. The China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) examines and approves the product according to the existing regulatory rules, and then it is listed and traded on the SSE. Thus, the efficiency of issuance examination and approval is greatly increased. Relevant institutional business, risks and capital management, as well as product design and trading documents are implemented according to the CBRC’s relevant regulatory rules, and are regulated by the CBRC. Listing and trading, information disclosure, and other issues of asset-backed securities go through self-regulation according to relevant rules of the SSE, and are regulated by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. In terms of the trading clearing system, CDC deals with registration, custody and clearing for the credit assets backed securities of Ping An listed and traded on the SSE, which builds a new market organization mode for China’s bond markets. According to relevant business notice, the financial institutions, the wealth management products issued by financial institutions, QFIIs/RQFIIs, and non-financial-institution legal persons which meet the requirements of investor suitability management for credit assets backed securities can subscribe for the products and trade in the SSE secondary market after opening a bond account in CDC. The market holds that the business mode of listing and trading of credit assets backed securities on the SSE with their registration and custody on CDC will help issuers and investors independently select trading sites of credit assets backed securities, realize united registration and custody of products, and enhance the market efficiency. It is a great step to propel the interflow and innovation of China’s bond markets.   　　According to sources, the total size of Ping An Bank No. 1 Petty Consumer Loan Assets Backed Securities is RMB2.631 billion, with Huaneng Guicheng Trust as the issuer and the trustee, and Guotai Junan Securities as the lead underwriter. The product has 3 levels (all issued by way of book building): 01 level in class A (rated AAA), 02 level in class A (rated AAA), and class B (unrated), with the issuance lines respectively up to RMB1.21 billion (45.99%), RMB1.341 billion (50.97%), and RMB79,855,239 (3.04%). The product will be listed and traded on the SSE soon.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Regulation on Trading of New Shares in Initial Listing Period
13 Jun 2014
　　To all market participants,   　　To strengthen regulation on trading of IPO shares (new shares) in their initial listing period, i.e., the first 10 trading days after their listing (excluding whole-day trading suspension days), prevent and control speculation on new shares, safeguard normal trading order, and protect investors’ legal rights and interests, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby notifies, in accordance with the “SSE Trading Rules”, the “SSE Guidance for Real-time Supervision on Abnormal Securities Trading” and other relevant regulations, the relevant matters of strengthening regulation on trading of new shares in their initial listing period as follows:   　　1. The order price of an investor on the shares IPO day should meet the following requirements, and any order with its price exceeding the effective range will be regarded as invalid:   　　(1) The effective order price during call auction should neither be 120% higher nor 80% lower than the issue price;   　　(2) The effective order price during consecutive auction should neither be 144% higher nor 64% lower than the issue price.   　　The calculating result of the range of effective order price should be rounded off to RMB0.01.   　　If no opening price appears during call auction, the first trading price of that day will be regarded as the opening price.   　　2. During the consecutive auction period on the shares IPO day, the SSE will impose in-session temporary trading suspension on any new shares whose in-session trading price is over 10% higher or lower than the opening price for the first time; and the SSE will not impose in-session temporary trading suspension on any new shares whose in-session trading price is over 20% higher or lower than the opening price.   　　Any trading suspension due to the preceding clause will last for 30 minutes. If the suspension time last till or past 2:55 p.m., trading will be resumed at 2:55 p.m. on that day.   　　After imposing in-session temporary suspension, the SSE will announce to the public the specific time for trading suspension and resumption through its official website (www.sse.com.cn) and the satellite transmission system.   　　3. In the initial listing period of new shares, the SSE will strengthen the monitoring on the following abnormal trading behaviors of one single or several associated securities accounts:   　　(1) Affecting the trading prices of new shares by ways of large-amount orders, high-priced (low-priced) orders, continuous orders and false orders;   　　(2) Affecting the trading prices of new shares by way of intraday reverse trading or frequently reversing trading every other day.   　　(3) Affecting the trading prices of new shares by large-amount orders through market orders.   　　(4) Other abnormal trading behaviors the SSE regards necessary to be monitored in a strict way.   　　4. In the initial listing period of new shares, behaviors with one of the following situations belong to large-amount orders, high-priced (low-priced) orders, continuous orders and false orders stipulated in Item (1) of Article 3 of this notice:   　　(1) During the period of call auction, buying (selling) over 5‰ of the actual number of floating new shares by making orders at the price 3% higher (lower) than the previous closing price (or the issue price for the IPO day);   　　(2) During the period of consecutive auction, buying (selling) over 5‰ of the actual number of floating new shares by making orders at the price 3% higher (lower) than the latest trading price when the orders are made;   　　(3) During the period of consecutive auction, when the latest trading price is the intraday highest trading price, buying over 2‰ of the actual number of floating new shares by making orders at the price no less than the latest trading price;   　　(4) During the period of consecutive auction, making more than three orders one-sidedly in one minute at the price higher (lower) than the best bid (ask) price when making the orders;   　　(5) During the period of consecutive auction, buying (selling) over 30% of the total amount of bid (ask) orders at the best 5 prices on the market by making orders at the real-time best 5 prices and conducting withdrawals of orders, with the same behavior occurring more than three times on that day.   　　5. The SSE has the right to adjust, according to the market needs, the range of the effective order price and the standards for abnormal fluctuations and abnormal trading behaviors stipulated in this notice.   　　6. The SSE will publicize the trading information of all investors participating in the trading after the closing of the shares IPO day, and all market participants can log on the official website of the SSE to look for these information in the section “Trading Information on Shares IPO Day” under the column “Trading Information Disclosure”.   　　7. The SSE has the right to apply one or more of the following regulatory measures to the securities accounts conducting the abnormal trading behaviors stipulated in this notice:   　　(1) Oral or written warnings to the holders of the securities accounts;   　　(2) Requiring the holders of the securities accounts to submit a commitment letter of compliance trading;   　　(3) In-session trading suspension of the account on the very day;   　　(4) Other regulatory measures stipulated by the SSE.   　　The SSE will limit the trading of the account with serious rule-breaking activities, regard the account’s holder as an ineligible investor, and record it into the credit archives; furthermore, the SSE will report the account suspected of being involved in law-breaking activities to the China Securities Regulatory Commission for investigation.   　　8. The SSE members should well publicize this notice and inform their clients of the risks of new shares trading. They should also reinforce the management on clients’ new shares trading behaviors. If the members find that their clients have one of the above-mentioned abnormal trading behaviors, they should warn the clients of the abnormal trading behaviors and take measures to stop them in time.   　　The members can refuse the trading orders of the clients who conduct serious abnormal trading behaviors and keep doing so regardless of warning, or terminate the securities trading agency relationship with the clients and report to the SSE, according to relevant regulations of the “Detailed Rules on SSE Members’ Management of Clients’ Securities Trading”.   　　9. The SSE members should coordinate with the SSE to conduct cooperative regulation on the new shares trading and take measures to standardize and restrict the new shares trading behaviors of the accounts under strict surveillance in the new shares trading.   　　Headquarters of member units should designate persons responsible for the regulation on new shares trading, and persons in charge of securities business departments should directly take charge of the cooperative regulation on new shares trading in their business departments.   　　10. The SSE will carry out special inspections on members’ implementation of this notice. For those who do not implement this notice effectively, the SSE will adopt the following regulatory measures and disciplinary sanctions:   　　(1) For any member with more than three clients being restricted by the SSE due to abnormal trading behaviors of new shares in one year or being identified that their securities account holders are not qualified, the SSE will interview its executives;   　　(2) For any member with more than five clients being restricted by the SSE due to abnormal trading behaviors of new shares in one year or being identified that their securities account holders are not qualified, the SSE will issue a letter of regulatory concern to it according to actual conditions;   　　(3) For any member with more than ten clients being restricted by the SSE due to abnormal trading behaviors of new shares in one year or being identified that their securities account holders are not qualified, the SSE will issue a criticism notice among all members according to actual conditions.   　　(4) Other regulatory measures and disciplinary sanctions stipulated by the SSE.   　　11. Funds, insurance companies, securities dealers and other professional institutional investors should strictly adhere to the requirements of this notice, insist on the principles of self-discipline and compliance, enhance the concept of value investing, and rationally participate in trading of new shares.   　　12. Words “more than” and “over” in this notice implies “inclusive”, and words “higher” and “lower” in this notice do not mean “inclusive”.   　　13. Other issues related to the regulation on the trading of new shares in their initial listing period are subject to the “SSE Trading Rules”, the “SSE Guidance for Real-time Supervision on Abnormal Securities Trading” and other business rules. This notice shall prevail if relevant stipulations in the SSE’s other business rules differ from those in this notice.   　　14. This notice shall come into effect from the promulgation day. The “Notice on Further Strengthening Regulation on Trading of News Shares at Their Initial Listing Period” (Shang Zheng Fa [2013] No. 20) released by the SSE on December 13, 2013 shall be abolished at the same time.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　June 13, 2014

SSE: Cementing Regulation on Companies on Risk Alert Board
09 Jun 2014
　　On June 6, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held a 2014 training meeting for companies on the risk alert board, in a bid to timely carry out the work of preventing delisting risks and protect investors’ interests. It is stressed at the meeting that the companies on the risk alert board will be urged to fully disclose information about delisting risks and relevant progresses. Besides, compliance of the companies with major risks in their previous information disclosures will be rechecked.   　　All the board chairs or general managers, and secretaries to directorates of the companies on the SSE risk alert board attended the meeting.   　　SSE Vice President Xu Ming emphasized at the meeting that an alarm bell of delisting is ringing when a listed company enters the risk alert board, and regulatory authorities will pay more attention to such companies. All these companies are expected to promptly formulate and implement schemes for removing delisting risks, and take responsibilities for investors, especially small and medium-sized investors. If a company on the risk alert board involves many mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations, or has much inside information and fluctuations of stock prices, the company and its relevant staff must raise awareness to strengthen management of information disclosure and not commit inside trading.   　　In his speech with the theme of “Further Intensifying Regulatory Work of Risk Alert Board”, Xu said that under the backdrop of regulatory transformation, the SSE will change its thoughts to cement in-process and aftermath regulation, establish its authority as a regulatory body, facilitate the standard operation of listed companies, safeguard the principle of “openness, fairness, and justice” on the market, and protect investors’ rights and interests, with information disclosure as the core, investors’ needs as the orientation, the Direct Channel for Information Disclosure as the key work, and industry regulation as the basis.   　　It is introduced that for the regulation on the companies on the risk alert board, the SSE will strengthen the effectiveness of the companies’ information disclosure and urge them to correctly and fully disclose to the investors their listing suspension risks, delisting risks, and all the measures they have taken to remove these risks, by attaching importance to two core issues, namely risk disclosure and settlement progress. Besides, the SSE will launch a special recheck mechanism to re-examine the compliance of the companies with major risks in their previous information disclosures. Any problem detected in the recheck will be handled immediately to ensure the regulatory work is well in place, leaving no regulatory loopholes.   　　After the 2013 annual reports of listed companies were disclosed, the SSE strictly implemented the delisting system according to the SSE stock listing rules. So far, risk alerts have been imposed on 26 SSE-listed companies (a drop of 16% compared with 31 companies that had received risk alerts by December 31, 2013), among which 19 received delisting risk alerts and the other 7 received other kinds of risk alerts, with *ST and ST imposed on their relevant shares, respectively.   　　Further analysis shows that one of the major reasons for the companies receiving *ST is their losses for 2 consecutive years, as a total of 15 companies, or 94% of all the companies newly receiving *ST, belong to this category. On the other hand, one of the major reasons for the companies receiving ST is their abnormal production and operation activities, as 5 out of the 7 companies receiving ST have such problems.   　　At the meeting, backbone personnel of the SSE Department I of Listed Companies Supervision and the SSE Market Surveillance Department trained the attendees in terms of listing rules, mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations, and control of inside trading. They explained relevant policies and key points, and answered questions of the companies to help them have a good understanding of relevant policies. Next, the SSE will further enhance the pertinence of its regulation and services by paying visits and making surveys to urge the companies to eliminate risks.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

1st Batch of CDB Bonds on SSE Completely Purchased
19 May 2014
　　On May 19, 2014, China Development Bank (CDB) upsized CDB 1301 Bonds by RMB3 billion and CDB 1302 Bonds by RMB1 billion by way of bidding on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), with the reference yields being 4.39% and 4.93% and the subscription ratios being 2.78 times and 3.5 times, respectively. After the upsizing, the first batch of pilot RMB30 billion CDB bonds issued on the SSE was completely purchased, which received strong responses from the market.   　　At the end of 2013, upon approval by the People’s Bank of China and the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), CDB launched the pilot issuance of policy-related financial bonds on the SSE, with the first batch of issuance line up to RMB30 billion. After that, CDB and the SSE issued 2-year, 5-year, and 15-year bonds, totaling RMB30 billion, on December 27, 2013, March 13, 2014, April 11, 2014, and May 19, 2014, respectively, which marked a success for the pilot bond issuance. Shortly after the promulgation of the “Some Opinions of the State Council on Further Propelling Sound Growth of the Capital Market” (the “Opinions” for short), CDB has finished the cross-market pilot issuance of policy-related financial bonds, which not only boosts the interflow of China’s bond markets, but also builds a milestone in the development of China’s bond markets.   　　Over the past years, especially since the 18th CPC National Congress, vigorously developing the bond markets has become an important part of the capital market development. The Executive Meeting of the State Council held in June 2013 pointed out that efforts should be made to expand the bond issuance and realize the interflow of the bond markets; and the 3rd Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee (the “3rd Plenary Session” for short) put forward the idea of developing and standardizing the bond markets as well as enhancing the proportion of direct financing. The “Opinions” recently promulgated put forward that we should develop the bond markets, cement the credit constraint in the bond markets, propel the interflow of the bond markets, and intensify regulatory coordination in the bond markets, which gives new meanings to the interflow of the bond markets.   　　According to a market insider, the pilot CDB bond issuance on the SSE is a vigorous move initiated by the People’s Bank of China and the CSRC to implement the requirements at the Executive Meeting of the State Council and the 3rd Plenary Session, and fuel the interflow of the bond markets.   　　Relevant expert holds that the CDB bond issuance on the SSE exerts great significance on the growth of China’s bond markets in the following aspects. First, it is conducive to CDB’s exploring diversified issuance channels and develop more investors by taking advantage of various investors on the SSE; second, as CDB boasts its quasi-sovereign credit, the CDB bond issuance on the SSE market can meet small and medium-sized investors’ need, increase property and income of residents, and realize an all-people-oriented financial service system; third, given the various investors at home and abroad on the SSE, the issuance of CDB bonds with quasi-sovereign credit not only contributes to developing more investment products and increasing investment lines of overseas investors, but also facilitates the internationalization of the RMB; fourth, it helps to give full play to the transparent and highly efficient pricing mechanism of the SSE, improve the bond yield curve, and boost China’s interest rate liberalization.   　　An official of the SSE says that this round of pilot CDB bond issuance has been praised by domestic investors, while overseas institutional investors have been highly enthusiastic about investment in CDB bonds issued on the SSE. According to incomplete statistics, up to 26.93% of overseas investors have purchased the CDB bonds with 3 kinds of bond maturities issued in 4 phases. All this not only shows overseas investors’ earnest pursuit of China’s high-credit bonds, which will contribute to boosting the opening-up of China’s capital market, but also reflects overseas investors’ confidence in China’s economy.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE: “9 New Opinions” Gives Historic Opportunity
12 May 2014
　　The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) says that the “Some Opinions of the State Council on Further Propelling Sound Growth of the Capital Market” (the “9 New Opinions” for short), which conforms to national conditions and meets masses’ needs, is a kind of scientific understanding on the rule of building China’s capital market in the new era, and a guideline for the further reform and sound growth of the capital market in the future. The “9 New Opinions” provides a historic opportunity for the market growth.   　　After the promulgation of the “9 New Opinions”, a journalist of the “Shanghai Securities News” promptly interviews with the SSE by phone call. An official of the SSE says that the SSE is willing to share some insights, though it preliminarily studies the “9 New Opinions”.   　　Gui Minjie, SSE Party Chief and Governor, says that the promulgation of the “9 New Opinions” gives a historic opportunity for the reform and development of the SSE market. After 10 years, the CPC Central Committee and the State Council put forward a strategic deployment on the reform and development of the capital market again, which not only marked their high attention to the work of the capital market and their supports for it, but also fully responded to the concerns of the people. The “9 New Opinions”, timely promulgated according to national conditions and masses’ needs, inherits the important requirements for boosting the sound growth of the capital market put forward at the 18th CPC National Congress, and the 2nd Plenary Session and 3rd Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee, shows clear orientation to reform and intensive market awareness, and contributes to giving away dividends of reforms, encouraging innovative development, and stimulating the market; upon surveys and studies on strategic issues that may propel the sound growth of the capital market, the “9 New Opinions” cements the top-level design, makes clear, reasonable, and practical systems, contributes to rationalizing the external environment, consolidating the market fundamentals, and maintaining the market stability, and fuels the real economy; the “9 New Opinions”, a guideline for the further reform and sound growth of the capital market in the future, is of great significance and profoundness as it puts forward a major task (also a general requirement) that a multi-tiered capital market, characterized by rational structure, complete functions, standardization and transparency, stability and hi-efficiency, as well as openness and diversity, will be completed on the whole by 2020.   　　Gui stresses that all measures mentioned in the “9 New Opinions” almost reflect the claims of market participants over past years. More than a document for every circle to do well in their work items, the “9 New Opinions” is a work guideline and a proclamation for clustering all consensuses and resources, elevating the market confidence, and stabilizing the market prediction as processes of its formulation and promulgation is the active, in-depth, and effective processes in which decision-makers and the public communicate, thoughts and wits are mobilized, and awareness and recognition are integrated as well.   　　He says that the “9 New Opinions”, in light of the economic and social development, gives a general deployment on the reform and development of the capital market in aspects of the stock market, the bond market, private placement, futures, industries, opening-up, risk control, and environment building. It meets a new round of reform and opening-up, and boasts its practical significance. While reviewing the promulgation and implementation of the “9 Opinions” in 2004, we find that an array of policies and measures, represented by the policy for solving the problem of equity division, exerted profound significance on the reform and development of the market later. Thus, we should further understand the practical significance of the “9 New Opinions” apart from seeing its strategic aspects.   　　Gui says that the SSE Party Committee will organize all the Party members and cadres as well as its staff members to learn and implement the “9 New Opinions”, and a news conference will be held to report further understanding of the document to the market and the public.   　　Huang Hongyuan, Deputy Party Chief and President of the SSE, says that the reform and development of the SSE market has a promising future with great challenges according to the strategic deployments and requirements mentioned in the “9 New Opinions”.   　　“The ‘9 New Opinions’ specifies that the leading role of securities-exchange-based markets should be cemented, which provides a historic opportunity for the growth of the SSE market in many aspects”, says Huang.   　　For instance, the requirement for increasing internal levels of securities-exchange-based markets contributes to speeding up the building of the SSE board for strategic emerging industries and providing more attractive investment targets for investors. The requirement for gradually perfecting stock option products mentioned in the “9 New Opinions” is conducive for the SSE to rationalize the whole-product-line construction (including spots and derivatives) and further narrow the gaps between SSE and globally-leading securities exchanges. The “9 New Opinions” puts forward a series of strategic deployments on the market’s opening-up, which contributes to boosting the preparatory work of the pilot business of the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Exchanges Connectivity Mechanism. Furthermore, the SSE plans to participate in the construction of the Shanghai Free Trade Zone (SFTZ) through the SFTZ Private Placement Trading Platform. Finally, the “9 New Opinions” requires to propel the interflow of the bond markets, which contributes to the SSE bond market’s continuous market expansion on the basis of risk control.   　　Huang specially mentions that the two research reports he recently read highly meet the requirements in the “9 New Opinions”, and give him full confidence in the steady and sound growth of the capital market in the future. One report involves that long-term funds enter the capital market. According to relevant calculation, there exist many blue chips featuring continuous distribution of high dividends currently, and they can produce absolute return (relatively safe, with annualized rate of return up to 5%) if appropriate value investing strategies are given, which means that good market fundamentals have been built for the capital market to usher in long-term funds. As the “9 New Opinions” tells a lot about the market-entry of long-term funds, it is predicted that if a standard for blue chips featuring distribution of high dividends is set up according to relevant research result, long-term funds’ worries about entering the capital market will be removed, the core of market valuation will be stabilized, a mutual incentive mechanism for investment and financing will be established, and thus small and medium-sized investors will continuously share fruits resulted from the economic growth.   　　Another report involves incentive to company executives and management on market capitalization. The report designs a scheme of dynamically issuing out-of-the-money options to listed companies’ executives to replace part of bonuses. In order to exert a long-term incentive influence, the scheme introduces exercise in batches and adds the lock-up period of sale. According to data analysis, the scheme can fully encourage executives, and simultaneously give consideration to interests of executives, companies, and small and medium-sized investors; it also can urge executives to continuously pay attention to stock prices and effectively manage market capitalization, and attach more importance to companies’ value creation, stock prices’ increase, and companies’ long-term development, instead of neglecting interests of small and medium-sized investors reflected by stock prices.   　　Huang Hongyuan stresses that, as a middle and long-term deployment, the promulgation of the “9 New Opinions” is a significant policy designed according to the overall situation and the strategic perspective. This means that, few of relevant work goals could be achieved overnight and effects of the policy could only emerge progressively. For this reason, the SSE must rely on its confidence, determination, tenacity, and rationality, which are also expected from the market and the society, to implement the requirements in the “9 New Opinions” and promote the reform and development of the SSE market.   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE News Conference Held to Report Annual Reports’ Examination
10 May 2014
　　The SSE further boosts regulatory transformation of information disclosure. 　　A news conference is held to report examination on annual reports of listed companies. 　　The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held a news conference yesterday to report recent progress in the regulatory transformation of listed companies’ information disclosure and progress in the examination on 2013 annual reports. An official of the SSE said that the SSE would strive to transform the regulatory way of information disclosure from prior examination to in-process and aftermath regulation, attach importance to speeding up its response to disclosure of major sensitive information, and intensify self-disciplinary punishment on rule-breaking behaviors. It was learnt that on the basis of the previous work, the SSE would continuously perfect the quick response system and boost regulation on industry information disclosure in the near future.   　　Attaching importance to the issues concerned by investors in the examination on annual reports   　　The SSE reported the examination on 2013 annual reports. 2014 is the first year for changing and adjusting requirements for examination on annual reports after launching the business of the SSE direct channel for information disclosure. The SSE comprehensively strengthened in-process and aftermath regulation on the following 4 aspects.   　　First, normal operation of the business of the direct channel for information disclosure was guaranteed. During the disclosure period of annual reports, the SSE vigorously guaranteed the technical platform of the direct channel for information disclosure, so the market efficiency of disclosure of listed companies’ annual reports was dramatically elevated and investors got a more convenient channel for information about annual reports. Now, investors can browse over 95% of annual reports before 19:00 on the disclosure day.   　　Second, the SSE attached importance to the issues concerned by investors in the examination on annual reports. The SSE specially examined corporate business modes, industry trends, risk disclosure, financial prediction, and other key information that may exert great influence on investors’ decisions. While examining annual reports, the SSE found that some companies failed to fully disclose information that may exert great influence on investors’ decisions according to requirements for disclosing annual reports, such as cost structure, R&D expenditure, and operation plan and capital need for the next year. Besides, the contents of corporate management’s analysis and discussion submitted by some companies were simple and empty, and the accounting policies of some companies had no pertinence. In the aftermath examination, the SSE required them to make supplementary disclosure in time.   　　Third, rule-breaking behaviors of information disclosure found in the annual report examination were punished. The SSE had launched disciplinary sanction procedures for public condemnation on Shandong Bohui Paper Industry Co., Ltd. and ST Jilin Chengcheng Group Co., Ltd. as well as relevant responsible people as they failed to disclose 2013 annual reports within statutory time limits, and it issued intent letters of public criticism to or imposed other regulatory measures on the 10 companies which broke rules in disclosure of their business performance predictions. Next, the SSE would continue to timely impose disciplinary sanctions or other regulatory measures on rule-breaking behaviors, such as rule-breaking predictions on business performance, replacing temporary announcements with periodical reports, rule-breaking connected transactions, found in the annual report examination.   　　Fourth, transparency of the annual report examination was intensified as well.   　　The SSE would continuously perfect the quick response system.   　　An official of the SSE said that according to the clear requirement that securities exchanges should fully take charge of frontline regulation on information disclosure related to listed companies’ periodical reports, temporary announcements, and others, build authoritative regulation on information disclosure, and cement self-disciplinary management (put forward at the national securities and futures regulation meeting held in 2014), the SSE fixed fundamental thoughts on frontline regulation on information disclosure, and specified its role and duties for regulation on information disclosure. The SSE’s self-disciplinary regulation on information disclosure should orient to investors’ needs, and depend on the business of the direct channel for information disclosure. The SSE should strive to transform the regulatory way of information disclosure from prior examination to in-process and aftermath regulation. In addition, the SSE would focus on accelerating its response to disclosure of major sensitive information, and strengthen self-disciplinary punishment on rule-breaking behaviors.   　　It was learnt that the SSE completed the following two work items recently on the basis of the previous work.   　　First, the SSE continuously perfected the quick response system. The SSE Company Regulation Department had built the morning conference system to analyze or predict aftermath regulation, abnormal fluctuations of stock prices, and monitoring information from morning news on the previous day before opening on the very day, and take regulatory measures in time. For example, Shanghai Prosolar Resources Development Co., Ltd. released an emotional announcement on the evening of April 29, the SSE promptly launched the quick response system. It suspended trading of shares in Prosolar Resources before opening on the next day, issued an inquiry letter to the company, and simultaneously report relevant information on its official micro-blog. Later, the SSE interrogated the company, and required it to rectify and explain to the market. Finally, the SSE issued its comment on this issue on its micro-blog.   　　Second, the SSE boosted regulation on industry information disclosure. The SSE is studying feasibility of industry regulation on information disclosure, namely, regulators regulate listed companies according to industry categories. Industry regulation can enhance regulators’ sensitivity to industries, and risks of listed companies can be found through comparison in the same industry, which can improve anticipating and handling capabilities of regulators. Furthermore, on the basis of summarizing the actual implementation of guidance documents on information disclosure of industries such as finance, real estate, and mining and quarrying, the SSE would continue to issue guidance documents on information disclosure for key industries, with an aim to enhance effectiveness and pertinence of listed companies’ information disclosure and help investors to get information they need. As the regulation on industry information disclosure involves adjustments to the work system and the division of personnel, the SSE would consider in a comprehensive way and steadily propel the work.   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE Issues Measures on Management on Pilot Business of Preferred Shares
09 May 2014
　　The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) recently issued the “SSE Measures on Management on Pilot Business of Preferred Shares” (the “Measures” for short) to implement and standardize the pilot business of preferred shares on the SSE according to the “Guiding Opinions on Conducting Pilot of Preferred Shares” (Guo Fa [2013] No. 46) issued by the State Council, the “Measures on Management on Pilot of Preferred Shares” (CSRC Decree No. 97) issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), and relevant regulations. The “Measures”, a special stipulation between basic business rule and ordinary detailed rule for implementation on the SSE, consists of 46 articles in 7 chapters such as general provisions, listing, trading, transfer, information disclosure, other issues, and supplementary provisions, and it took effect from the date of issuance.   　　The main characters of the “Measures” are as follows. First, features and rules of preferred share are firstly considered. Different from ordinary share, preferred share has some attributes that are equal to those of bond. In the aspects of listing, trading, transfer, and information disclosure, the business of preferred share is different to that of ordinary share and that of bond. The “Measures”, according to the features and rules of the business of preferred share, makes special regulations for the business of preferred share. Second, the fundamental need for the operation of the business of preferred share is met. Preferred share, an innovative product, is short of practical experience, and relevant business is complicated. Thus, the “Measures”, in order of importance and urgency and in the principle of starting with easy things first, systematically stipulates major processes for the business of preferred share, with an aim to meet the fundamental need for the operation of the business of preferred share. For the issues that may not occur in a short term or are hard to be controlled at present, the “Measures” only makes regulations in principle, and supplements will be made gradually according to practice. Third, coordination with the existing business rules is stressed. Preferred share has almost the same business processes as ordinary share, so the “Measures” specially stipulates some points in the business of preferred share which are different to those in the business of ordinary share. The “Measures” will try not to make stipulations on the business processes of preferred share that can adopt the existing business rules for ordinary share or bond, which will be implemented according to or by referring to the SSE’s relevant rules.   　　The “Measures” includes the following aspects. First, about listing, listing conditions for preferred share are stipulated. Upon referring to and calculating minimum floating volumes of newly-listed shares and bonds on the SSE, the “Measures” requires that actually-raised total fund of preferred share should not be less than RMB0.25 billion after public issuance, with a core aim to maintain the minimum floating volume, curb speculation, and prevent risks. Besides, the preferred share will adopt the same risk alert, listing suspension, listing resumption, listing termination, and re-listing as the ordinary share (except some special circumstances related to equity distribution and market indicators mentioned in the “Measures”), which should be implemented according to the “SSE Stock Listing Rules”.   　　Second, about trading, listed preferred share adopts auction trading. Price limit of 10% will be adopted on the first day of listing and in daily trading. Trading information of preferred share is separately displayed, and not included into calculating indexes related to relevant ordinary shares on the SSE. A special standard for recognizing abnormal fluctuations of preferred share is adopted.   　　Third, in terms of shares transfer, the SSE will launch a special technological platform to provide services for transfer of non-publicly issued preferred shares of listed companies, and preferred shares non-publicly issued along with initial public offering of ordinary shares by non-listed public companies. Besides, the SSE stipulates the application procedures and methods for transfer of preferred shares, as well as their trading methods. All participants should be qualified investors meeting the requirements of the CSRC, and a maximum of 200 persons are allowed to hold the preferred shares with issuance approval at the same time and with the same clauses after the transfer of the preferred shares. Moreover, the SSE prescribes the responsibilities of its members concerning investor suitability management.   　　Fourth, for information disclosure, the “Measures” puts forward requirements for the obligations of information disclosure in periodical reports and ad hoc reports, in view with the issues closely related to the prices in trading or transfer of preferred shares. In addition, it lays out the obligations for disclosing the notifications and relevant information required in recovery of voting rights, redemption, selling back, and conversion of preferred shares. In principle, transfer suspension/trading suspension, or transfer resumption/trading resumption for transfer of preferred shares will be synchronized with those for transfer of ordinary shares, unless the equity distribution of the ordinary shares fails to meet the listing conditions for 20 consecutive trading days.   　　Fifth, in addition to all the above aspects, a designated code section of preferred shares, different from that of ordinary shares, will be assigned for trading or transfer of preferred shares. Further, fee charging in the business of preferred shares is specified. Besides, the “Measures on Capital Subscription of Online Shares Issuance on Shanghai Market” and other existing rules are applicable in the public issuance of preferred shares. Furthermore, regulatory measures or disciplinary punishments in case of breaking the “Measures” are specified as well.   　　According to the CSRC’s “Measures on Management on Pilot of Preferred Shares”, the SSE will become one of the main sites for the pilot business of preferred shares. Attaching great importance to the pilot business of preferred shares, the SSE has carried out exhaustive research and in-depth discussion on relevant issues in the pilot business of preferred shares, as well as solicited opinions from relevant market participants. In formulating the business rules, the SSE thoroughly sorted out all procedures involved in the pilot business of preferred shares, and developed relevant technological systems, so as to meet the needs in this pilot business.   　　Recently, Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Co., Ltd., Guanghui Energy Co., Ltd., and some other companies listed on the SSE have announced their schemes for issuance of preferred shares. It is also worth mentioning that, as the business of preferred shares is a significant reform on China’s capital market, it is featured with new products, unique mechanisms, and complicated business procedures. It is difficult to predict all possible troubles or problems in practice. During the pilot business, all market participants could consult and communicate with the SSE concerning issues such as the rules and procedures in the business of preferred shares. The SSE will do its best to provide sound responses and services. Besides, the SSE will pay close attention to the pilot business of preferred shares, summarize relevant experience in time, constantly improve the rules on the pilot business of preferred shares, and play an effective role in aspects including organizing transactions and market administration, in a bid to ensure the steady and orderly development of the pilot business.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE to Fuel Transformation of Information Disclosure Regulation through Annual Report Auditing
29 Apr 2014
　　The 2014 Meeting on National Securities and Futures Regulatory Work has arranged the work on regulatory transformation, in which it points out that securities exchanges will be in charge of front-line regulation on the information disclosure related to periodical reports and temporary announcements of listed companies, establish authority on information disclosure regulation, and strengthen self-disciplinary management. In line with this requirement, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has, in this year’s annual report auditing, carefully considered such issues as how to promote transformation of self-disciplinary regulation and how to do well in front-line regulation work on investors-oriented information disclosure, adopted an array of measures on in-process and aftermath regulation, and explored new ideas on regulatory transformation in practice, with some good results achieved.   　　The first is to ensure the normal operation of “Direct Channel for Information Disclosure”. The SSE officially launched the “Direct Channel for Information Disclosure” (an electronic information disclosure system of the SSE) in July 2013, through which listed companies can directly submit announcements and release information to the public. 2014 is the first disclosing circle of annual reports after the implementation of this business. During the release of annual reports, the SSE has made full efforts on safeguarding the technical platform of the “Direct Channel”, and the market efficiency of the disclosure of listed companies’ annual reports has been remarkably improved, leading to more convenient ways for investors to get the information of annual reports. At present, investors can obtain 95% of the companies’ annual reports before 19:00 on the released day.   　　The second is to urge listed companies to timely correct and clarify typical mistakes in their annual reports. During the disclosure of this year’s annual reports, the SSE has firstly reviewed major financial indicators, shareholders’ information, and other contents concerned by investors and required listed companies to correct typical mistakes immediately. For example, Qinghai Jinrui Mineral Development Co., Ltd. and some other companies have disclosed credit guarantee accounts of margin trading and securities lending as shareholders of listed companies, instead of disclosing the final actual holders in line with the requirements, and the SSE required them to correct and re-disclose in time. Besides, some media, having read listed companies’ annual reports, queried the operational risks and financial situations of some companies. The SSE has paid high attention to this issue and demanded listed companies to clarify or correct it immediately. According to preliminary estimates, listed companies have issued over 70 corrected announcements and over 80 clarification announcements as required by the SSE.   　　The third is to transfer the focus of annual report examination to the matters concerned by investors. In 2014, the SSE will orient itself to investors’ demands and focus on examining matters concerned by them, such as corporate business modes, industry tendencies, risk disclosure, financial prediction, and other key information that may exert great influence on their decisions. With regard to some listed companies’ insufficient explanation on their operational risks, careless analysis of their revenues and costs, incomplete disclosure of the influences caused by non-recurring profits and losses, and insufficient provisions for depreciation, the SSE required them to release supplementary announcements. For example, inadequate disclosure of risks occurred in the annual report of Jilin Ji’en Nickel Industry Co., Ltd., and the SSE has, in the aftermath auditing on the annual report, asked Ji’en Nickel to explain 17 issues involving risks in assets-transfer trading, gross margin’s increase, and changing from projects under construction to fixed assets that give rise to large-amount year-end earnings, and overseas loss-making company. Take Zhonghang Heibao Co., Ltd. for another example, the SSE has noticed problems in its future business plan, dramatically increased receivables, major clients, compensation for land, and depreciation provision, and thus required it to make supplementary disclosure.   　　The fourth is to deal with illegal behaviors in information disclosure. The SSE has found, during the annual report examination, that some listed companies were unscrupulous in business performance predictions with incomplete processes, which affected investors’ decisions. Thus, the SSE has taken regulatory measures or disciplinary sanctions on over 10 companies that involved rule-breaking behaviors including great discrepancies in business performance predictions. The SSE also found that some listed companies did not timely disclose information in assets purchase and sale, government subsidies, and connected transactions or did not have complete decision-making processes. For example, some listed companies have not fulfilled mandatory decision-making processes on daily connected transactions apart from those authorized at the beginning of the year, and they have not timely disclosed the government subsidies they had received. Besides, some listed companies have presented commonsense mistakes in statement data and accounting treatment, such as not adopting prospective application in the application period of accounting estimation. The SSE has acted quickly to strictly deal with any clue on rule-breaking behaviors found in the annual report examination and imposed regulatory measures or disciplinary sanctions on verified rule-breaking activities. And it has submitted major suspects to relevant departments of the China Securities Regulatory Commission for further inspections.   　　Relevant person of the SSE said that the SSE, as a market organizer and a self-regulatory organization, should keep pace with the times, initiatively adapt itself to the needs of the market and investors, and accelerated the transformation of self-disciplinary regulation. Next, the SSE will, on the basis of the preliminary work of annual reports, continuously gather professional personnel for follow-up regulation on the annual report disclosure, analyze and summarize listed companies’ annual reports, and guide them to enhance the effectiveness and pertinence of information disclosure, thus laying a solid foundation for continuous improvement of the quality of their annual reports.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Adjusts Regulatory Requirements for Transfer of Stock Shares with Terminated Sales Limit
16 Apr 2014
　　On April 15, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) issues the “Notice of Relevant Issues of Revoking Restrictions on Transfer of Stock Shares with Terminated Sales Limit and Other Business Lines” (the “Notice” for short), which specifies that a listed company’s shareholder selling stock shares with terminated sales limit that are nearly, or equivalent to, or more than 1% of the total issued shares of the listed company through the auction trading system of the SSE within 1 month will not be regulated as a behavior of abnormal trading. Besides, some business rules, such as the "Notice of Implementation of ‘Guidance Opinion on Transfer of Stock Shares with Terminated Sales Limit in Listed Companies’", are revoked correspondingly. In addition, the “Notice” specifies that regulations on transfer of stock shares with terminated sales limit and their participation in margin trading and securities lending mentioned in relevant business rules, such as the “Detailed Rules on SSE Members’ Management on Clients’ Securities Trading”, will no longer be applicable.   　　According to an official of the SSE, the “Notice” is issued to support the revocation of the "Guidance Opinion on Transfer of Stock Shares with Terminated Sales Limit of Listed Companies" (the “Guidance Opinion” for short) of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). As the “Guidance Opinion” mainly stipulates that a listed company’s shareholder should conduct transfer of shares through the block trading system of the SSE, in case of lessening holding of stock shares with terminated sales limit that are 1% or above of the total issued shares of the listed company within 1 month. After the “Guidance Opinion” is revoked, transfer of stock shares with terminated sales limit will no longer be subject to the above restriction. Through the issuance of the “Notice”, the SSE has completed follow-up work in response to the relevant rules of the “Guidance Opinion”, as well as adjusted regulatory requirements for transfer of stock shares with terminated sales limit and other business lines.   　　After the “Notice” is issued, a listed company’s shareholder can choose auction trading or block trading for transfer, in case of lessening holding of stock shares with terminated sales limit that are 1% or above of the total issued shares of the listed company within 1 month, and no limit is imposed on the participation of the stock shares with terminated sales limit in margin trading and securities lending; however, the shareholder should still fulfill obligation of information disclosure according to relevant stipulations made by the CSRC and the SSE when lessening holding of the stock shares with terminated sales limit. Moreover, as the “Notice” does not involve stipulations related to sales limit of shares, equity changes of shareholders holding more than 5% of total issued shares of a listed company, and others, a listed company’s shareholder should still abide by the above stipulations, namely, the shareholder should halt trading according to law when lessening holding of stock shares with terminated sales limit or other shares that are 5% of the total issued shares of the listed company, and fulfill obligation of relevant information disclosure.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Pilot Program of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Exchanges Connectivity Mechanism Approved
10 Apr 2014
　　Premier Li Keqiang says in his keynote speech at the Boao Forum for Asian Annual Conference 2014 this morning, “We will actively create conditions to establish a Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Exchanges Connectivity Mechanism (SHSECM), and further promote two-way opening-up and sound development of the capital markets in China’s Mainland and Hong Kong.”   　　This noon, the China Securities Regulatory Commission and the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) of Hong Kong release a “Joint Announcement”, which approves, in principle, the development of the SHSECM pilot program by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), the Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (HKEx), and China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited (CSDC). The move is an important breakthrough in the opening-up of the capital market in China’s Mainland and also a major innovation for realizing the goal of “promoting two-way opening-up of the capital markets” put forward at the 3rd Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee. It will propel the development of the capital markets in China’s Mainland and Hong Kong as well as the progress of RMB’s internationalization.   　　After the launching of the SHSECM pilot program, investors in the markets of China’s Mainland and Hong Kong can entrust local securities companies (brokers) to trade eligible shares listed on the other’s market through the order-routing service to be provided by the SSE and the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Ltd. (SEHK). Clearing institutions of both sides will establish a direct link for cross-boundary clearing. Each of them will become each other’s clearing participant and provide clearing services for the SHSECM pilot program as a nominal holder of the stocks to be purchased by investors of both sides.   　　This innovative mechanism will help to introduce international investors into the Shanghai market, further improve the investor structure there, and attract more overseas capital, so as to inject new vitality for the sustainable growth of the Shanghai market and facilitate the investment of investors in China’s Mainland in overseas capital markets.   　　The SSE will, in line with the “Joint Announcement”, negotiate with relevant parties for reaching cooperation agreements on trading and clearing as soon as possible and make preparations for relevant rules, business lines, and technologies, with an aim to officially launch the business of the SHSECM pilot program within 6 months.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Business of Bond Repayment on Installments Adjusted
31 Mar 2014
　　Since the end of last year, reduction of bond nominal value has been adopted for the business of repayment on installments for the bonds listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) according to the new rule. On October 18, 2013, the “SSE Trading Rules” (amended in 2013) issued by the SSE stipulated that reduction of bond nominal value should be mainly adopted for bond repayment on installments, and reduction of bond positions or other ways could be adopted according to market conditions. Reduction of bond nominal value for the business of bond repayment on installments is conducive to improving the efficiency of the business. When bond issuers repay on installments, the bond positions held in the investors’ accounts will remain unchanged, with the nominal value of one lot of bonds reduced correspondingly. Besides, payable bond interests should be calculated according to the adjusted bond nominal value. Opening reference price after repayment on installments = closing price before the day for repayment on installments – 100 * the ratio to be repaid this time.   　　According to the new rule, if reduction of bond nominal value is adopted for bond repayment on installments, no trading suspension of bonds should be implemented in the process of repayment on installments, and bond trading should not be suspended on the right and interest record day, which will contribute to enhancing liquidity of bonds. According to the “Notice of Relevant Issues of Handling the Business of Bond Repayment on Installments through the SSE Trading System” released in 2012, if reduction of bond positions is still adopted for bond repayment on installments, trading should be suspended on the right and interest record day of repayment on installments.   　　It is learnt that on March 9, 2014, 2009 Corporate Bond of Changchun City Development Group Co., Ltd. (09 Changchun City Development) listed on the SSE became the first bond that adopted reduction of bond nominal value for repayment on installments since implementation of the new rule. Besides, the bond nominal value, opening reference price, bond name’s abbreviation, and others of 09 Changchun City Development were accordingly adjusted, with the trading not suspended on the right and interest record day. In the near future, 2009 Corporate Bond of Zhenjiang Urban Construction Investment Co., 2010 Corporate Bond of Luohe City Construction & Investment Co., 2009 Corporate Bond of Kunshan Chuangye Holding Co., Ltd., and others will also adopt reduction of bond nominal value for repayment on installments.   　　In addition, bond repayment on installments involves interests of issuers and investors. It is known that due to the change in the business of bond repayment on installments, the SSE previously issued a notice to require that efforts should be made to carry out risk alert and education for investors in several aspects. That is, the SSE’s members should issue risk alert for investors, and bond issuers should publish the “Announcement on Bond Repayment on Installments” on time. Furthermore, relevant issuers and underwriters should learn the relevant stipulations of the SSE, and understand the change in the business of bond repayment on installments, and do well in relevant work items.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

2nd Batch of CDB Bonds Issued on SSE
24 Mar 2014
　　After the pilot issuance of the 1st batch of China Development Bank (CDB) bonds on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), the 2nd batch of CDB bonds was issued on the SSE recently, and listed and traded on March 20. Investors, especially QFIIs, actively subscribed for CDB bonds, which fully showed the advantages of the SSE bond market. CDB’s pilot issuance of bonds on the SSE witnessed a good result.   　　On March 13, the 2nd batch of CDB bonds was bid for upsizing through the SSE Bond Issuance System. The upsized targets are 2-year fixed-rate bonds (bond code: 018001) and 5-year fixed-rate bonds (bond code: 018002) issued at the end of last year. The 2-year bonds are upsized by RMB6 billion, with the residual maturity of 1.83 years, the coupon rate of 5.80%, and bringing total outstanding amount to RMB14 billion; and the 5-year bonds are upsized by RMB2 billion, with the residual maturity of 4.84 years, the coupon rate of 5.84%, and bringing total outstanding amount to RMB6 billion. Thus, CDB Bonds of RMB20 billion in total have been issued on the SSE.   　　According to the bidding result, yield rate of the 2-year bonds was 4.97% while that of the 5-year bonds was 5.28%, 8 and 2 BPs lower than those of the CDB bonds with similar periods in the inter-bank bond market, respectively; their have high subscription multiples, 2.01 times and 2.76 times, respectively. It is learnt that subscribers of the 2nd batch of CDB bonds were securities companies, QFIIs and RQFIIs. The bidding result showed that listed commercial banks and securities companies subscribed for RMB2.3 billion bonds and RMB5.8 billion bonds, with the subscription proportions of 29% and 69%, respectively. In the distribution after the bonds issuance, securities companies distributed RMB2.33 billion bonds in total to 18 QFIIs or RQFIIs such as Deutsche Bank, BNP Paribas, and the Banco de España, with the subscription proportion up to 30%, 15 times their subscription proportion for the issuance of the 1st batch of CDB bonds. On March 20, the 2nd batch of CDB bonds was listed and traded on the SSE. On that day, the trading volume dramatically increased compared with that of the 1st batch of CDB bonds, which showed that the upsizing mechanism adopted by the 2nd batch of CDB bonds effectively enhanced liquidity of the secondary market, and CDB bonds gained popularity among investors including foreign capital institutions and individuals on the secondary market.   　　Market insiders said that investors on the SSE market, especially QFIIs and RQFIIs, actively subscribed for CDB bonds for the following reasons. First, the SSE and CDB successively held an array of promotion campaigns since last October, and they organized trainings for QFIIs and RQFIIs in February 2014; under great supports of competent authorities and market participants, investment value of CDB bonds (i.e., quasi-sovereign bonds) has been further recognized by the market. Second, as risk factors of credit bonds have been gradually released recently, the market prefers to avoid credit risks and invest in sovereign debts and quasi-sovereign ones. For investors with low tax burdens, such as funds and banking wealth management products, CDB bond is a very attractive investment target. Third, as the 1st batch of CDB bonds was issued at the end of last year and some institutions, especially QFIIs and RQFIIs, encountered the Christmas vocation, they had no time to subscribe for the bonds. After the Chinese Spring Festival, the market interest rate continuously fell and the capital was abundant relatively, which propelled market institutions to subscribe for CDB bonds.   　　The issuance of the two batches of CDB bonds testifies that CDB’s pilot issuance of bonds on the SSE has achieved a good result preliminarily. The concerted promotion of the pilot issuance by the People’s Bank of China and the China Securities Regulatory Commission was a substantive measure and a beneficial try for boosting the interflow of China’s bond markets, with expected achievements made as well. Exchange-based bond market has some advantages such as its diversified investors and market-oriented pricing mechanism, so it can interact with the inter-bank bond market, develop more bond investors, and build more financing channels for issuers. It is hoped that with the overall arrangement and guidance of competent authorities, CDB and the SSE will continue to do researches on issuing bond products oriented to the features of the exchange market, improve mechanisms for issuance and trading of policy-related financial bonds, and facilitate regular issuance of policy-related financial bonds on the exchange market, in a bid to fuel the rapid growth of China’s bond markets.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

“I’m a Shareholder” Activity Re-launched
14 Mar 2014
　　The SSE protects right of speech of small and medium-sized investors. 　　As the “Mar. 15” International Day for Protecting Consumers’ Rights is approaching, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) holds the Awarding Ceremony of the 2013 “I’m a Shareholder” Activity and the Launching Ceremony of the 2014 “I’m a Shareholder” Activity. Among those attending are Liu Shian, Vice President of the SSE, award-winning representatives from over 20 securities companies and their business departments, representatives of listed companies, representatives of individual investors, and major financial and economic media.   　　“I’m a Shareholder” Activity is an important task of the SSE in investor education and protection. The activity has gained popularity among small and medium-sized investors, as well as listed companies, securities companies, and the media since its launching. Judging from the result of satisfaction survey, the degree of satisfaction of listed companies and the media exceeds 95%, that of small and medium-sized investors visiting listed companies exceeds 98%, that of anonymous online small and medium-sized investors is over 90%, and that of the SSE’s member units is more than 95%.   　　Highlights in the activity 　　Liu Shian says that the success of “I’m a Shareholder” Activity can not be achieved without the concerted efforts of all market participants. The SSE will continue the heat of last year’s activity and further improve all supporting measures with consistent supports from all sides, so as to build the “I’m a Shareholder” activity into a brand.   　　He then emphasizes the highlights of this year’s activity. First, the activity will continue to enhance the right of speech of small and medium-sized investors, and establish the system of the small and medium-sized investors’ satisfaction evaluation on quality of listed companies’ information disclosure, so as to make their information disclosure closer to needs of small and medium-sized investors. This is an important part for propelling the activity and also a key measure for urging listed companies to keep strengthening investor relation management. More transparent and better information disclosure of listed companies can not only reduce the information asymmetry of the capital market, but also improve small and medium-sized investors’ decision-making and reduce their trading cost, thus enhancing the efficiency of the capital market.   　　Second, the coverage of this activity will be expanded. The mode of the activity in the last year was “investors selecting listed companies by voting, and visiting listed companies under organization by the SSE”, while two new mechanisms will be introduced this year. The first is that listed companies can recommend themselves to the SSE; and the second is that securities companies are allowed to hold the activity with the SSE, which will better take account of securities companies’ customer service and further expand their participation. The holding of the SSE, coupled with the self-recommendation of listed companies and the joint holding of securities companies, will help to significantly expand the activity’s coverage.   　　Third, cooperation with the media will be strengthened. This year’s activity will rely on the mass media to explore the connotation of this activity and build the brand of “I’m a Shareholder” in full scale, so as to enhance the activity’s value. Besides, it will not only continue to strengthen its good cooperation with major financial and economic media, but also keep expanding the activity’s influence by virtue of online media, so as to enable more small and medium-sized investors who have no opportunities to visit listed companies to feel that they are becoming increasingly closer to listed companies and to make more people to enjoy the result of the activity.   　　Fourth, the rules and process of the activity will be optimized. The activity will optimize the selection of investors, and organize symposiums. In addition, it will, according to small and medium-sized investors’ evaluation on the information disclosure of listed companies, design more contents for the activity, enhance the participation enthusiasm of all market participants such as small and medium-sized investors, the media, and member units, and elevate the satisfaction of all parties concerned.   　　Active responses from all market participants 　　The first listed company visited by the investors in the activity last year is Shanghai Pudong Development (SPD) Bank, and investors all spoke highly of the activity in SPD Bank. This time, SPD Bank, as a representative of listed companies, holds that the activity will urge investors to erect the awareness of shareholders’ rights and build up a bridge between investors and listed companies, so that shareholders can learn about listed companies in a more perceptual way. The interactive communication will not only enhance investors’ trust in listed companies, but also urge listed companies to further do well in all work items.   　　Also attending the conference are representatives of “Enthusiastic Shareholders” from Zhengzhou, Henan Province. The activity has won good reputation among small and medium-sized investors. The number of investors participating in the online selection last year reached over 1.6 million, and finally over 200 of them were selected as “Enthusiastic Shareholders” by the SSE in accordance with online voting, on-site participation, and securities companies’ recommendation. Mr. Meng, a client of Central China Securities, was one of them. “The activity, which has gone on from 2013 to 2014, has boasted its organization and meaningfulness. We could feel the sense of honor and pride as shareholders. I hope that the activity will continue and bring happiness to individual investors, and shareholders can gain returns for their investment in the stock market, which contributes to boosting the growth of China’s economy.” says Meng.   　　In addition, as a supporting measure of the activity, the SSE has carried out the 2013 appraisal of the “I’m a Shareholder” activity for securities companies. Spokesman of China Galaxy Securities says that the activity has been carried out for a year since its launch. It could help investors to set up the awareness of being a shareholder and foster concepts of rational investment and value investing, which highly conforms to the connotation of “International Day for Protecting Consumers’ Rights”. As a member of the SSE, China Galaxy Securities will combine investor protection with customer service to fuel the progress of the activity.   　　The representatives present have heated talks on how to optimize the activity. They say that they will invest more, improve software and hardware facilities, and cement pertinence and effectiveness of all work items. They also hope that the SSE will continue to provide market participants with opportunities for experience demonstration and mutual talks, and establish and perfect communication mechanisms between investors and listed companies.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

CDB to Issue 2nd Batch of Policy-related Financial Bonds
11 Mar 2014
　　On March 10, China Development Bank (CDB) released the notice of additional issuance of the 1st and 2nd phrases of financial bonds on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) on the SSE website. The two phrases of bonds will be bid for additional issuance on the SSE on March 13. The additionally-issued targets are CDB 1301 (2-year period with fixed interest) and CDB 1302 (5-year period with fixed interest) issued at the end of last year. The bidding volume of CDB 1301 is RMB6 billion with the residual maturity of 1.83 years and the coupon rate of 5.80%; and that of CDB 1302 is RMB2 billion with the residual maturity of 4.84 years and the coupon rate of 5.84%. The underwriting group of the issuance this time is the same as that of the first issuance, and the lead underwriters are Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, China Construction Bank, Agricultural Bank of China, CITIC Securities, Orient Securities, and Donghai Securities. The issuance and listing of CDB bonds on the SSE is an important measure of the People’s Bank of China and the China Securities Regulatory Commission to facilitate the reform and promote the development and interflow of the bond markets, and it is of positive influence on promoting the bond market’s innovation and attracting more overseas and individual investors to participate in the bond market.   　　CDB 1301 and CDB 1302 were bid for issuance on the SSE on December 27, 2013, and they were listed on January 7, 2014. The two phases of CDB bonds, which have been actively subscribed for by all parties, have presented brisk trading since their listing. According to statistics, the net closing price of CDB 1301 on March 6 was RMB101.45, up by 1.49% compared with that on the first day of its listing, and its YTM (yield to maturity) was 4.91%; and the net closing price of CDB 1302 was RMB102.93, up by 2.94% compared with that on the first day of its listing, and its YTM was 5.19%. The two phases of bonds have achieved the accumulative trading volume of RMB2.02 billion, accounting for nearly 17% of the trusteeship volume. All this shows that CDB bonds have gained popularity among investors of all kinds on the SSE. Particularly, they have been actively purchased by QFIIs, RQFIIs, and individual investors. Someone revealed that QFIIs and RQFIIs have held 9% of CDB bonds on the SSE, and many individual investors have invested in CDB bonds.   　　Market insiders analyzed that as CDB will continue to issue CDB bonds on the SSE, market participants’ enthusiasm is expected to become higher for the following reasons. First, the additional issuance of CDB bonds will help to further increase the liquidity, thus enhancing the bond’s trading function. Second, as the 1st batch of CDB bonds was issued at the end of last year, a lot of institutions had closed positions, and many decision makers of QFIIs and RQFIIs were on the Christmas vocation, they had no time to subscribe for the bonds. The demands frozen at the end of last year are expected to be released this time. Third, judging from the seminars jointly held by the SSE and CDB recently, under the background of the continuous appreciation of RMB and the obviously higher domestic interest rate compared with those in overseas developed economies, QFIIs and RQFIIs still have great enthusiasm for investment in high-class interest-rate bonds represented by CDB bonds. Fourth, as the risk factors of credit bonds have been gradually released recently, the market prefers to avoid credit risks and invest in sovereign debts and quasi-sovereign ones. However, for investors with low tax burdens, such as funds and banking wealth management products, actual coupon income of CDB bonds is more attractive than treasury bonds.   　　Besides, a market insider believed that in the issuance of CDB bonds this time, more individual investors might be involved. In the issuance of the 1st batch of CDB bonds, the largest order of an individual investor has the subscription volume of RMB20 million, and the proportion of individual investors has grown steadily since the listing of the bonds. Though CDB mainly specializes in mid-term and long-term wholesale business, and it has little contact with the masses, its popularity in the bond market has attracted many individuals who have participated in bond investment for a long time. One individual investor very familiar with CDB said that the coupon rate of the 2-year bonds issued by CDB on the SSE at the end of last year was 5.8%, while the interest rate of 3-year certificate treasury bonds was 5%, and the treasury bonds could not be bought even when one comes to a bank earlier in the morning. As a result, many individuals have chosen to invest in CDB bonds. Though the yield rate in the bond market has decreased recently on the whole, the yield rate of 2-year CDB bonds in the secondary market has remained at 4.9%, with liquidity and trading opportunities. Therefore, the value of 2-year CDB bonds is not lower than treasury bonds.   　　An official of the SSE said that the SSE has been well prepared for the additional issuance according to the issuance need of CDB. Besides, under the guidance of competent departments, the SSE has gradually improved the issuance and trading mechanism of policy-related financial bonds, researched the policy-related financial bonds that conform to the characteristics of the exchange markets, and made full preparations for the regular issuance of CDB bonds on the SSE, with an aim to further promote the sound development of China’s bond market.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Gui Minjie: T+0 Trading for Large-cap Stocks Ready for Launch, SSE’s Trading Platform in SFTZ Approved
10 Mar 2014
　　    The SSE will go all out to launch individual stock options in 2014. 　　　　The SSE market will promote rationalized reinforcement of enterprises in merger, acquisition, reorganization, assets injection, and overall listing. 　　 　 The SSE will study to build the system of scrip dividend and continue to propel guidance for disclosure of industry information. 　　　　The CSRC has approved the SSE’s application for building the trading platform in the Shanghai Free Trade Zone (SFTZ). 　　    　　Gui Minjie, Member of the CPPCC National Committee and SSE Chairman of the Governors, recently says at the press release for deputies to the NPC and members of the CPPCC National Committee in the securities regulatory system that, conditions have become ripe for launching the trading system of T+0 for large-cap stocks, which will be promoted by the SSE in the future. It is suggested that the SSE should establish a Strategic Emerging Industries Board, which is oriented for comparatively large strategic emerging enterprises with steady growth. This Board is expected to complement the Growth Enterprise Market (GEM) Board but partially overlapping. In addition, the SSE will try to launch single stock options in 2014. 　　     Single stock options to Debut With an aim to develop new attractions on the SSE market, and meet the needs of the real economy in China, Gui says that, the SSE is studying, demonstrating, and considering about adding the new board specially oriented for economic transformation and upgrading, that is, the board of strategic emerging industries, in a bid to complement the present blue-chip market, and adjust the stock structure of the SSE market. According to Gui, the board of strategic emerging industries is positioned to serve comparatively large enterprises with steady growth, which means, this board will complement the growth enterprise board market and the main board. However, Gui adds that, although the SSE market is mainly featured with large-cap stocks and traditional stocks, it does not mean that these enterprises or industries are outdated. Actually, with the improvement of strategic emerging industries, these enterprises are equally entitled to economic achievements. Besides, as the reform of state-owned enterprises for 2014 has begun, next, the SSE will encourage enterprises to promote rationalized reinforcement in terms of issues such as merger, acquisition, reorganization, assets injection, and overall listing. Regarding investors’ confidence and protection of their rights and interests, Gui reveals that this year, the SSE will launch guidance for disclosure of industry information, strengthen protection of small and medium-sized investors’ rights and interests, implement guidelines for separate vote counting for small and medium-sized investors, and overall online voting, and those for promoting the system of cumulative voting, and vote collection, as well as study the dispute-settling mechanism for investors in this group. In addition, the SSE will better its arrangements for systems such as cash dividend distribution and share repurchase, study on establishing the system of scrip dividend and the system of diversified investments, implement the regulatory guideline for cash dividend distribution, urge listed companies to pay cash dividend, enhance return for investors, and promote the balance between investment and financing of the capital market. As for the development of derivatives, the market is looking forward to the launch of single stock options. According to Gui, in 2014, the SSE will go all out to do all relevant preparatory work for the launch of single stock options. “We have submitted the report on applying for launching single stock options to the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) for approval. Further, the CSRC will also need to do some work items, including the work of releasing measures for management on option trading.” It is introduced that, the SSE will continue to promote innovation on the market in 2014. It has now planned to launch commodity ETFs, split-capital funds, and other products, as well as launch LOF products in 2014.     T+0 Trading System Ready for Launch During the NPC and CPPCC sessions for 2014, one of the most frequently asked questions for CSRC Chair Xiao Gang, and Gui is the T+0 trading system. As the most widely adopted trading system in major exchanges all over the world, on the one hand, the T+0 trading system could enhance efficiency in pricing and trading, lower costs of trading, capital, and opportunity, on the other hand, there are some doubts about possible over-speculation and unfairness on the market. According to Gui, possible over-speculation and over-trading could be curbed by proper measures, such as regulation on accounts, investor suitability management, linking between trading by accounts and margins, and restriction on trading frequency, as well as other systematical arrangements. “On the whole, we believe that, it is ripe for launching the T+0 trading system on the large-cap stock market, which will be facilitated in the near future,” says Gui. When internationalization is concerned, Gui also puts forward his opinions. As the CSRC has recently approved the SSE’s application for building the trading platform in SFTZ, the SSE will vigorously participate in the construction of the SFTZ in 2014, in a bid to build a trading platform of international financial assets in the SFTZ for international investors. With regard to the reform of the share issuance registration system highly concerned by the market, Gui holds that the whole securities system will fuel the reform of the registration system this year. Before the law amendment, preparatory work will be carried out. The SSE has been participating in the reform of the registration system, and it has organized a team to do work items involving research schemes, systems, and rules. Gui also believes that under the current system of the “Securities Law”, some obstacles exist for decentralizing the authority of refinancing approval to exchanges. However, the work of simplifying examination and approval procedures for refinancing is continuously propelled before the law amendment. Gui introduces that this year, three proposals will be submitted to the NPC and CPPCC sessions for 2014 as follows. First, the tax system for individual securities investment should be optimized, and direct financing proportion should be elevated as well. It is suggested that we should work out a policy of interest income tax for corporate bonds held by individual investors as the same as that for treasury bonds, local government bonds, financial bonds, and bank deposits, exempt individual investors from income tax for dividends resulted from shares in listed companies (excluding shares with sales limit) held by them, instead of repeated taxation, and further lower the stamp duty rate for stock trading. Second, the system of the capital market should be perfected, and strategic emerging industries should be boosted as well. It is suggested that the board of strategic emerging industries should be established on the SSE to serve emerging moderate-scale innovative enterprises that have gone through business startup period. When it comes to amending the “Securities Law”, control over equity structure, conditions for issuance and listing, incentive system, and others should be loosened. In terms of designing the systems of the board of strategic emerging industries, differentiated arrangements for listing conditions, trading, regulation, corporate governance and operation, and other aspects should be made as well. Third, the system of pension funds’ investment and operation in the capital market should be improved. It is suggested that individual accounts should be funded, and all funds should be coordinated to supplement capital of individual accounts by way of transferring state-owned shares, putting into state budget, shares transfer for state-owned enterprises’ listing. Measures for management on pension funds’ investment and operation should be worked out as soon as possible, and market-oriented investment and operation should be allowed for maintenance and appreciation of values. Moreover, enterprise annuities should be propelled by increasing the ratio of tax preference and gradually loosening the limit to the proportion of investment in the capital market. Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE to Strengthen Reform, Invigorate Blue-chip Market
07 Mar 2014
　　—— SSE Organizes Learning from NPC Opening Ceremony   　　The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) organizes learning from the opening ceremony of the National People’s Congress (NPC) and the government work report given by Premier Li Keqiang.   　　SSE President Huang Hongyuan says, given the backdrop of the severe and complicated domestic and international situations last year, we should be proud of China’s achievements in its reform and opening-up, and its modernization.   　　Deploying the governmental tasks for 2014, Li’s report requires strengthening reform and making breakthroughs in some key sectors, when domestic and international situations remain complicated. As for the capital market, building a multi-tiered capital market and reforming the registration system of share issuance should be accelerated, and development of the bond market should be according to regulation. In addition, financial activities should be invigorated to serve micro and small enterprises, as well as agriculture, rural areas and farmers in the real economy. All this has pointed out the direction for reform and opening-up on the capital market in 2014.   　　According to Huang, in 2013, the SSE made much progress in terms of market development, innovative business, self-disciplinary regulation, and market service. However, we faced some bottleneck problems, which, in Li’s report, could be attributed to “a critical phase for structural adjustment and change of economic growth”.   　　As the SSE aims at becoming the main battlefield for China’s capital market, over the recent years, it has been thinking about: which kind of capital market can best support China, the 2nd world economy in transformation, also an emerging power? What’s more could the SSE market do to facilitate economic and social development and reform for China?   　　Actually, the SSE market is facing a key phase for its transformation, according to the goals of China’s economic and social development put forward by the 18th CPC National Congress, the 3rd Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee, and government work reports given in recent years.   　　On the one hand, the SSE market will provide more services for adjustments to the structure of national economy, development of strategic emerging industries, and reform and transformation of state-owned enterprises. On the other hand, in addition to attracting idle funds in the society, the SSE should try to build itself into a major channel for resource allocation of major funds in the society.   　　Huang adds that, as is stated in the SSE’s work plan for 2014, which has been formulated and released, with “Strengthening Reform as Its Drive” as the guideline for next work, the SSE will continue to invigorate the blue-chip market through an array of reform measures as follows:   　　First, the SSE will launch the board for strategic emerging industries, in a bid to support the development of strategic emerging industries, serve the adjustments to the structure of national economy, and its transformation, as well as facilitate the sustainable and stable development of China’s economy.   　　Second, the SSE will get prepared for work related to individual stock option products, and provide badly-needed risk management instruments for investors.   　　Third, the SSE will put forward new trading mechanisms oriented to the characteristics of blue chips, with an aim to revitalize the blue-chip market and attract more investors.   　　Fourth, the SSE will strengthen international cooperation and exchange, and attract international major long-term funds to invest in the SSE market.   　　Fifth, in addition to further cementing the dividend distribution system of listed companies, the SSE will foster blue chips with high yield, in a bid to build them into a major channel for domestic long-term funds to share stable economic growth.   　　Furthermore, the SSE will continue to explore regulatory transformation, enhance the market’s transparency, improve the market-oriented service, and put more emphasis on education and protection of investors. In a word, the SSE will unceasingly develop the depth and breadth of the SSE market, and reinforce and diversify the market’s functions, so that the market can shoulder its responsibilities in the aspect of giving full play to the decisive role of the market in resource allocation.   　　Finally, Huang says that after learning the government work report given by Premier Li Keqiang, the SSE is more confident in completion of the 2014 work items. With our resolution, we will speed up the reform and transformation of the SSE market.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Reduces Bond Nominal Value for Repayment on Installments
04 Mar 2014
　　The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will conduct bond repayment on installments by reducing bond nominal value since today, with an aim to implement the requirement of the China Securities Regulatory Commission for developing the bond market, and improve efficiency of the business of bond repayment on installments.   　　According to a relevant announcement of the SSE, when bond issuers repay principal on installments, the bond positions held in the investors’ accounts will remain unchanged, with the nominal value of one lot of bonds reduced correspondingly. Besides, payable bond interests will be calculated according to the adjusted bond nominal value.   　　It is learnt that, when bond issuers repay part of the principal on installments, the SSE will calculate the opening reference price of the bond on the day for repayment on installments according to the formula of “opening reference price after repayment on installments = closing price before the day for repayment on installments – 100 * the ratio to be repaid this time”.   　　In order to avoid misleading bond investors, the SSE will carry out risk alert and education for investors from the following 3 aspects:   　　First, it will add “PR” before the names of bonds requiring repayment on installments by reducing nominal value for warning.   　　Second, the SSE requires its members to issue risk alert for investors in all ways.   　　Third, the SSE requires bond issuers to publish the “announcement on bond repayment on installments” before repaying in this way, in order to specify an array of issues, including record date, repayment scheme, calculation method for nominal value, method for adjusting opening reference price, and change of bond name’s abbreviation.   　　As China Government Securities Depository Trust & Clearing Co. Ltd. also reduces bond nominal value to repay on installments on the inter-bank bond market, this way of repayment will not only strengthen the SSE’s services for bond investors, but also facilitate interflow of the SSE bond market and the inter-bank bond market. Moreover, it is learnt that, the first bond involving repayment on installments will be "09 Changchun Urban Development (122982)", with its repayment ratio being 30% of the issuance amount, and the repayment day being March 10, 2014. According to relevant regulations, the nominal value of this bond will be reduced to RMB70 after repayment on installments. This bond will become the first one with the mark of “PR” on the SSE bond market.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Key Work Arrangements for 2014 Released
27 Feb 2014
　　First, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will rationalize its work in terms of reform, innovation, transformation, and service. This requires the SSE to get prepared and carry out cooperation to support relevant issues involved in the reform of registration system for shares issuance, and accelerate construction of the SSE market in an innovative way. Besides, the SSE will promote innovation. Further, the SSE will conduct regulatory transformation, and promote transformation for both the market and itself. In addition, the SSE will improve the satisfaction degree of market participants according to market needs, in a bid to enhance its comprehensive and core competence.   　　Second, the SSE will do more researches regarding measures to enlarge and invigorate the blue-chip market, and build a complete market system with coordinated development of 4 major markets.   　　Third, the SSE will prepare for the simulated trading for individual stock options, strengthen services for strategic emerging industries, and promote the cross-border cooperation among exchanges.   　　Fourth, the SSE will build itself into a market-oriented and investor-friendly exchange. According to needs of investors, the SSE will accelerate the regulatory transformation of listed companies’ information disclosure, implement protective measures for small and medium-sized investors, and enhance regulatory transparency.   　　The SSE has recently issued its key work arrangements for 2014 by releasing this news on its micro-blog.   　　“Reform, innovation, transformation, and service” will be the key words for the SSE’s work for 2014. Here, reform refers to the implementation of work arrangements required in the “Decision on Strengthening In-depth Reform on Some Key Issues” put forward by the 3rd Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee, and the support for the service cooperation work of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) for all reform issues. Namely, the SSE will take the initiative in supporting relevant issues involved in the reform of registration system for shares issuance. Besides, the SSE will cooperate with the CSRC to carry out in-depth research on the reform of registration system for shares issuance, and get prepared in all tasks involved in meeting the requirements in the reform of registration system for shares issuance. In addition, the SSE will support the work involved in the reform of refinancing examination, simplify and publicize standard, procedure, and progress of examination, and establish the market-oriented restriction mechanism. Moreover, the SSE will accelerate its market construction by meeting the needs of reform, in accordance with the requirement of promoting reform and innovation in all sides of economic and social development, which was put forward by the CPC Central Committee regarding economic work for 2014.   　　On the one hand, the SSE will reform its market system and product layout, better its product chain and innovate its trading methods, as well as build a complete market system with the blue-chip market as its core and coordinated development of the bond market, the assets management market, as well as the securities derivatives markets.   　　On the other hand, the SSE will strengthen opening-up, in a bid to promote the growing trend of opening-up of the financial market, accelerate further opening of the SSE, and actively participate in global competition.   　　“Innovation” requires the SSE to accelerate an array of innovation work on the basis of safe operation and risk prevention. The SSE will prepare for the simulated trading for individual stock options, strengthen services for strategic emerging industries, and promote the cross-border cooperation among exchanges, in order to enlarge and invigorate the blue-chip market. Moreover, the SSE will enhance the SSE market’s capacity and competence in serving the market through constant innovation and self-improvement.   　　“Transformation” means that the SSE will meet the needs in the key note of regulatory transformation, which was proposed by the CSRC for the securities regulatory work in 2014, as the key to regulatory transformation is building the SSE into a market-oriented and investor-friendly exchange. Besides, in market regulation, the SSE should turn its emphasis from prior examination and impartiality in rules to in-process and aftermath regulation, as well as protection for investors, especially small and medium-sized ones. As for market services, the SSE should transform from the needs of self-administration to paying attentions on the experience of market participants, especially investors.   　　“Service” here requires the SSE to specify procedures, enrich content and means, attach importance to feedbacks, enhance transparency, and improve market participants’ satisfaction degree, so as to improve its comprehensive and core competence, according to needs of the market. As for investors, the SSE will implement detailed requirements for protecting small and medium-sized investors in all procedures of self-disciplinary regulation. In addition, the SSE will pay more attention to the market’s needs and investors’ experience in development of new products, and provide services featured with user-friendliness for investors. Further, the SSE will promote the risk margin system for rule-breaking listed companies and the appraisal system for protecting the legal rights and interests of small and medium-sized investors, as well as improve the voting mechanism for small and medium-sized investors, and seek new mechanism to solve various disputes over rights and interests of small and medium-sized investors. Besides, the SSE will rationalize the new mechanism mainly featured with performance promotion meeting and presentation meeting, as well as build an industry’s communication platform featured with efficiency, transparency, and rationality, in a bid to greatly improve operational transparency for listed companies. Regarding shares issuers, the SSE will improve and enrich its service mechanisms and methods mainly oriented for IPO-related services and enhance its proficiency in services, in addition to promoting incubation for small and medium-sized enterprises, and reinforcing cooperation with the agency share transfer system, regional shares markets, and key national hi-tech parks. Moreover, the SSE will better its service quality for members, intermediaries, regulatory institutions for securities, and other participants.   　　According to the above-mentioned work principle, the SSE has made the key work arrangements for 2014 including:   　　First, the SSE will continue to implement the strategy of the blue-chip market, in order to strengthen reinforced rationalization of the blue-chip market.   　　1) The SSE will first continue to strengthen services for strategic emerging industries, and facilitate the development of new industries such as the internet, eco-protection, biology, new material, high-end equipment manufacture, new generation of information technology, cars driven by new energy, new energy, and culture, with an aim to rationalize its function in market services and enhance the representativeness of the real economy.   　　2) The SSE will reinforce its incubation work for small and medium-sized enterprises, and strengthen cooperation with the agency share transfer system, regional equity exchange centers, key national hi-tech parks, and others.   　　3) The SSE will steadily launch preferred shares. This requires the SSE to complete all supporting preparations in terms of the rules, procedures, and technologies of preferred shares, and relevant implementation work, according to relevant regulations. Further, it will publicize relevant knowledge of preferred shares in order, and popularize relevant policies, as well as market services and promotions.   　　4) The SSE will fuel the market-oriented reform for mergers, acquisitions, and reorganizations, and tap idle assets. This requires the SSE to support listed companies, especially state-owned companies, to accelerate mergers, acquisitions, and reorganizations on various platforms for reorganization of state-owned companies. Besides, the SSE will facilitate communication between listed companies and non-listed enterprises in emerging industries, so as to fuel the structural adjustment and industrial upgrading of listed companies. In addition, the SSE will support the work of format examination on the schemes on significant assets reorganization, and sort out relevant laws and rules concerning mergers, acquisitions, and reorganizations, as well as innovate supporting measures on issues such as buyout bonds, buyout funds, and bridge loans, in a bid to promote the rationalized structural adjustment to idle assets of listed companies.   　　5) The SSE will promote innovation on the trading mechanism for the blue-chip shares, and study to adopt different trading mechanisms for the blue-chips market according to its characteristics.   　　6) The SSE will continue to urge and guide dividend distribution of listed companies, and keep balance between investment and financing on the capital market. Further, the SSE will study to launch a blue-chips sector with high yield, and promote improvement for relevant accounting policies and regulatory policies, with an aim to render this sector into a major channel attracting long-term capitals such as social security funds, insurance funds, and social public-welfare funds to realize value maintenance and appreciation.   　　7) The SSE will improve its listing mechanism, and implement the new delisting system strictly.   　　The SSE will continuously implement the strategy for the bond market and vigorously develop and regulate the bond market. Specifically, apart from increasing the value of bonds for custody on the bond market, it will expand the size of the bond market and cement the promotion of bond issuance by taking the opportunity of the expanded pilot of corporate bonds. Business sizes of treasury bond pre-issuance, policy-related financial bonds, and other financial institutions’ bonds, and size of convertible bonds’ issuance and listing will be enlarged. Service efficiency for SME private bonds will be continuously enhanced. More efforts will be made to boost product innovation and diversify investors. Issuance and listing of exchangeable bonds and write-down bonds will be realized, the system of collateralized repo transactions of bonds will be further perfected, and rules for the investor suitability management will be consummated, in addition to taking an array of measures to boost commercial banks to participate in the exchanged-based bond market. Besides, the SSE will continue to propel the interflow between on-floor and over-the-counter bond markets. Under the condition that the market interest rate increases with high fluctuations, it will do well in the work of preventing, alerting, and eliminating risks on the bond market. The bond rating management will be reinforced, a dynamic management system of risks for bonds’ duration will be established, and dynamic monitoring, alerting, and disposal systems of bond risks will be perfected as well. Moreover, the SSE will improve the system of bonds’ filing and issuance and that of bonds’ listing and trading, and integrate all the bond trading systems.   　　The SSE will adhere to fueling the strategy of the derivative market as well as developing derivatives and innovative products. It will make full preparations for individual stock option products, and perfect business schemes and rules. Business schemes, risk control measures, and technical systems will be tested and improved through simulated trading, trainings for investors will be strengthened, and supporting mechanisms for the operation of individual stock options will be further improved as well. Expansion of the fund market will be accelerated with the market participation degree to be boosted as well. In addition, it will insist on perfecting the fund product layout on the basis of commodity ETF, graded fund, and LOF platforms, further boost product innovation, and provide more means and instruments for assets management.   　　The SSE will unceasingly speed up the strategy of internationalization and propel its opening-up. It will fuel cross-border cooperation among exchanges, participate in the construction of the Shanghai Free Trade Zone, and build an international platform of financial assets trading. Besides, it will continue to perfect the measures for pilot of overseas companies’ issuing RMB-denominated bonds on Shanghai market, and relevant business rules, and relevant business operation schemes and procedures. Furthermore, the SSE will boost listing of SSE indices on major exchanges in the world, push the A-share market into overseas major indices, and propel the development of cross-border ETFs.   　　In order to effectively carry forward the above 4 strategies, the SSE suggested that it will continue to strengthen the operation security, the regulatory environment, and other security work in 2014.   　　With regard to ensuring operation security, the SSE will establish a rapid responsive system to unusual transactions and information, and set up a risk-warning mechanism to emergencies, so as to effectively control market risks.   　　With regard to guaranteeing regulatory environment, the SSE will first and foremost realize the regulatory transformation. It will orient itself to investors’ demands, actively promote regulatory transformation, make efforts on promoting the market’s openness and transparency, bring off the positive function of regulation in promoting the market development, and implement the 9 suggestions on protecting small and medium-sized investors put forward by the General Office of the State Council of PRC, so as to protect the rights and interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors, from the design of new products and trading mechanism to every link in the trading.   　　First, the SSE will actively explore the regulation on the information disclosure of listed companies under the registration system and the direct channel for information disclosure. It will implement the direct channel for information disclosure in full scale at the right time, and explore the retrospective investigation mechanism of information disclosure. Besides, it will complete the transition from the jurisdiction-area-featured regulation model to the regulation model of industry information disclosure, intensify the continuous regulation on information disclosure, implement the guidance on industry information disclosure in full scale, and launch the third-party evaluation on information disclosure standards. In addition, it will promote the construction of the pre-disclosure system of shareholding decrease by holders of shares with sales limit, and strengthen regulation on listed companies’ fulfillment of relevant promises.   　　Second, the SSE will fully promote the openness of self-regulation and the construction of market transparency. It will formulate and release public lists of the SSE’s technologies, business lines, and regulation, and publicize regulatory rules and results.   　　Third, the SSE will highlight the protection of the rights and interests of small and medium-sized investors and reinforce investor education. It will improve the “SSE E-interaction Platform, keep carrying out the activities of “I’m a Shareholder” and “Investors Face-to-face”, and form a normal working mechanism. It will also research and push forward the risk margin system for rule-breaking listed companies and the appraisal system for protecting the legal rights and interests of small and medium-sized investors. Besides, it will introduce and implement relevant guidance on small and medium-sized investors’ separate vote-counting, full online voting, and on carrying out cumulative voting system and voting right collection, and explore a mechanism to resolve various disputes over the rights and interests of small and medium-sized investors.   　　It is introduced that till the end of December, 2013, the total market value of shares on the SSE market had reached RMB15.1 trillion and the value of bonds for custody had reached RMB1.7 trillion. Its total turnover had been RMB86.5 trillion, among which the stock’s turnover had been RMB22.96 trillion, the bond’s turnover had been RMB62.6 trillion (including RMB1.53 trillion of spot goods and RMB61.05 trillion of repo), the fund’s turnover had been RMB0.8989 trillion (including RMB670.7 billion of ETFs, RMB205 billion of transactional money market funds, and RMB23.2 billion of closed-end funds), and the turnover of others had reached RMB41.1 billion. And the raising and financing amount of the SSE’s shares and corporate bonds had reached RMB550.8 billion. Till the end of December, its stock market value, turnover, and financing amount had ranked the 7th, 5th, and 6th respectively among all major exchanges in the world.   　　In 2013, though IPO paused, 154 listed companies realized the equity-supported refinancing and fundraising amount of RMB251.6 billion; 55 listed companies completed the corporate-bond-supported financing of RMB170.7 billion, among which RMB93 billion, about 25% of the total annual financing amount in Shanghai market, went to support the financing of listed companies in strategic emerging industries; and 36 companies completed the significant assets reorganization with the transaction amount of RMB73.7 billion, newly adding 5 companies each with the market value of over RMB10 billion.   　　In 2013, altogether 653 listed companies on the Shanghai market (68% of the total number of listed companies) launched the cash dividend distribution program (including the semi-annual distribution) and gave out the dividends of RMB595.9 billion. The amount of cash dividend took up 35.16% of the total profit of listed companies’ shareholders, reaching a record high.   　　Last year, 107 listed companies held the briefings for cash dividend distribution, annual performance, and other events through the “SSE Roadshow Center”; the average daily page view amount of “SSE E-interaction Platform” reached 46,000; the total page view amount of the investor education website (http://edu.sse.com.cn/) was 58.5 million with the click rate increasing by 77% year-on-year. Besides, such activities as “I’m a shareholder: small and medium-sized investors’ visits to listed companies”, “Face-to-fact Communication”, and “Monthly Q&A” effectively set up interactive bridges between investors, especially small and medium-sized investors, and listed companies.   　　In 2013, 1,686 kinds of bonds were listed on the SSE, the value of bonds for custody amounted to RMB1.72 trillion, and the total turnover reached RMB62.58 trillion (including the spot trading of RMB1.53 trillion), which increased by 65%, 62%, and 65% respectively compared with those at the end of 2012, all reaching record highs. During 2013, the SSE filed the private placement bonds of 136 small and medium-sized enterprises with the total filing amount of RMB26.57 billion, listed 114 bonds (up by 159% than the previous year) with the total amount of RMB15.2 billion, and issued 111 kinds of bonds with the total amount of RMB15.646 billion (up by 178% than the previous year). And it achieved the accumulative trading amount of RMB18.6 billion, up by 365% than the previous year, and over fulfilled its annual target.   　　The SSE launched five key products in 2013, including currency, bonds, gold, sector ETF, and efficient subscription and redemption money market funds, thus further enriching its fund product varieties. Altogether 87 kinds of fund products were newly added, including 20 ETFs and 6 innovative money market funds. By the end of December, the market value of all funds had reached RMB368.7 billion and the SSE’s annual trading volume, for the first time, exceeded one trillion, reaching RMB1.2121 trillion. And the 3 kinds of bonds, gold, and currency ETF products realized the intraday trading.   　　The SSE successfully launched the collateralized repo of stocks in 2013, steadily realized the quotation repo on a regular basis and the pilot of securities lending of refinancing, and it expanded the coverage of margin trading and securities lending and the scale of underlying securities. In 2013, the SSE achieved the total transaction scale of all innovative business lines of RMB8.33 trillion.   　　In 2013, the SSE actively promoted the cross-border index cooperation. It pushed the A-share market to be included in MSCI index and promoted the SSE indices to be listed in major international exchanges. Besides, it advanced the development of cross-border ETF products, successfully launched and listed the NASDAQ 100ETF, and completed the issuance of S&P 500 ETF.   　　The SSE officially launched its direct channel for information disclosure on July 1, 2013. By the end of December 2013, listed companies on the Shanghai market had submitted 23,619 announcements, among which 83.22% were “direct channel” announcements, and 16.78% were prior examination announcements.   　　In 2013, with regard to the illegal behaviors of listed companies and relevant bodies, the SSE made 133 disciplinary sanctions and regulatory decisions, which involved 68 listed companies and about 285 directors, supervisors, and senior executives. It censured 28 listed companies’ directors, supervisors, or senior executives, 6 listed companies, 1 controlling shareholder, and 2 actual controllers in public, and identified in public that 3 persons were not suitable to take the position of director, supervisor, or senior executive. Meanwhile, the SSE completed the investigation and handling of 490 abnormal transactions and investigated 845 securities accounts. In 2013, it reported a total of 130 clues to the CSRC, up by 124% compared with the previous year.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Remarks on Revisions to SSE Supporting Rules on Delisting
30 Jan 2014
　　To further perfect the delisting system of listed companies, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) has recently issued the “Opinions on Reform, Improvement and Implementation of the Delisting System of Listed Companies” (the “Opinions” for short), and at the same time the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has released the “SSE Stock Listing Rules (Revised in 2014)” (the “Listing Rules” for short), revising rules related to delisting. Recently, according to the “Listing Rules”, the SSE has revised and released three supporting rules for delisting mentioned in the “Listing Rules”, namely, the “SSE Measures on Re-listing of Delisted Companies (Revised in 2015)” (the “Measures for Re-listing” for short), the “SSE Detailed Rules on Business in Delisting Arrangement Period (Revised in 2015)” (the “Detailed Rules” for short), and the “SSE Administrative Measures on Stock Trading on Risk Alert Board (Revised in 2015)” (the “Measures for Risk Alert Board” for short). 　　To make the revisions successful, the SSE issued the drafts for comments for the above-mentioned three supporting rules on October 19, extensively soliciting opinions and suggestions from all market participants including 11 listed securities dealers in particular. 　　In the revisions, we have incorporated into the relevant rules the contents of the SSE’s three previously-released notices on separate businesses involving delisting arrangement period, as well as trading and management of the risk alert board, and abolished the three notices. The abolished three business notices are respectively the “Notice of Issues of Cementing Management of Stock Trading on Risk Alert Board” (Shang Zheng Hui Zi [2013] No. 2 Document), the “Notice of Revising, Abolishing Relevant Business Rules of SSE Delisted Share Transfer System” (Shang Zheng Fa [2013] No. 26 Document), and the “Notice of Issues of Listed Companies’ Shares Entering Delisting Arrangement Period for Trading” (Shang Zheng Fa [2014] No. 15 Document). 　　As the specific implementation measures for the matters related to the delisting system, the supporting rules for delisting mainly standardize arrangements for listed companies after delisting, including trading arrangements before termination of listing and re-listing arrangements after termination of listing, serving as an important guarantee for smooth implementation of the delisting system, with great significance in safeguarding rights and interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors. The revisions are hereby briefed as follows: 　　I. Revisions to the “Measures for Re-listing” 　　According to the amendments to the “Listing Rules”, the “Measures for Re-listing” makes consequential revisions to re-listing conditions, interval for re-listing application, procedures of re-listing application and approval for delisted companies, mainly including the following two aspects: 　　(A) Adjusting the conditions for applying for re-listing: main financial indicators for re-listing should be equivalent to those for IPO. 　　When formulating the re-listing system for delisted companies in 2012, the SSE made it clear that the conditions for applying for re-listing shall be not lower than those for backdoor restructuring of listed companies and not higher than those for IPO in principle. As the conditions for backdoor restructuring of listed companies as required by the CSRC have been equivalent to those for IPO, the conditions for applying for re-listing have been adjusted in the revisions: main financial indicators shall be equivalent to those for IPO. For example, it is stipulated that the net profit of the company, the lower one of those before and after the deduction of non-recurring profits and losses, should be a positive figure and exceeds RMB30 million in total in the recent three fiscal years; the company’s net cash flow in operational activities in the recent three fiscal years should be more than RMB50 million; or else, the total operating revenue in the recent three fiscal years should be more than RMB300 million. 　　(B) Making differentiated arrangements for re-listing of companies delisted in different cases 　　The “Opinions” requires for differentiating companies delisted in different cases in specific conditions, procedures, information disclosure, and trading arrangements for re-listing. In this regard, the following differentiated rules for re-listing of companies delisted in different cases have been made in the revisions: 　　1. Making differentiated rules for the interval of applying for re-listing 　　As there are significant differences among the companies delisted for different reasons in willingness of delisting, degree of violation, degree of being trapped in trouble, and other aspects, in order to further increase costs for serious violations such as fraud issuance as well as respect and encourage listed companies to voluntarily implement delisting from their own rational demands and wills, differentiated arrangements for the intervals for re-listing applications submitted by listed companies have been made in the revisions: 　　(1) A voluntarily-delisted company may submit a re-listing application at any time after listing termination of its stocks; 　　(2) A compulsorily-delisted company caused by market trading indicators shall have an interval of three months before applying for re-listing; 　　(3) A company compulsorily delisted for reasons other than serious violations and market trading indicators shall have an interval of twelve months before applying for re-listing; 　　(4) A company compulsorily delisted for serious violations shall have an interval of an entire fiscal year before applying for re-listing. 　　2. Adding the conditions for accepting re-listing applications of companies delisted for serious violations 　　The compulsory delisting of companies for serious violations, characterized by highlighted abruptness and high severity, has significant negative impact on the interests of investors and the market development, and it is highly concerned by market participants. In order to maintain the sound market environment and protect the legitimate rights and interests of investors, the prerequisites for accepting the re-listing application of the companies delisted for serious violations have been stipulated in the revisions. 　　These prerequisites include having fully corrected the violations, displaced and dismissed the relevant persons liable, made appropriate arrangements for civil compensation, and had the sponsor institutions and lawyers provide the relevant confirmation opinions, etc. 　　3. Simplifying the procedures and documents for re-listing applications of voluntarily delisted companies 　　In order to encourage voluntary delisting, respect the autonomy of the companies, and form the flexible market-oriented flow mechanism, the application documents and approval procedures have been properly simplified for re-listing applications of voluntarily delisted companies in the revisions. 　　Specifically, first, in terms of the application documents, a voluntarily-delisted company may apply to the SSE for exemption from providing relevant application documents that it considers inapplicable; second, regarding the review procedure, the SSE has halved the time for making a decision on whether to approve re-listing or not from the conventional 60 trading days to 30 trading days. 　　4. Particular regulations on re-listing of delisted companies with serious violations after “error correction” 　　After the compulsory delisting of listed companies for serious violations, if the identification of the serious violations is revoked or changed, which is regarded as “error correction”, the companies’ listing should be resumed unconditionally. The SSE should cancel its former decisions on delisting the companies’ shares and arrange for re-listing of its shares according to the companies’ applications. Therefore, specific sections have been prepared in the revisions, and arrangements are as follows: 　　(1). The SSE should cancel its former shares delisting decisions within 5 trading days after receiving related legal documents, if companies delisted for serious violations meet the stipulated changes, for example, relevant decisions on judicial or administrative penalties are altered, revoked, or terminated. 　　(2) Delisted companies could apply for re-listing to the SSE at any time after the SSE makes decisions on revoking listing termination. Documents required for re-listing applications will be simplified if the companies submit their re-listing applications in line with the stipulated procedures, and the SSE will decide whether to approve of re-listing the shares within 15 trading days. 　　(3) After re-listing, the companies’ shares need not to be first traded in the SSE’s risk alert board and may be exempted from the provisions of restriction of selling shares by controlling shareholders, actual controllers, directors, supervisors and senior managers in the “Measures for Re-listing”. 　　In addition, since different documents will be required for re-listing applications of companies delisted for different reasons, the revisions develops an application document list for re-listing of delisted companies according to 3 situations: compulsory delisting, voluntary delisting, and error corrections for serious violations, so as to provide convenience for the companies. 　　II. Revisions to the “Detailed Rules” 　　The revisions mainly involves the following 2 aspects: 　　(1) It is stipulated that shares in voluntarily delisted companies need not to enter the delisting arrangement period for trading. Since voluntary delisting is based on having companies’ shares to quit trading, the shares should not enter the delisting arrangement period for trading after being delisted. 　　(2) The situations when companies in the process of bankruptcy and reorganization need not enter delisting arrangement period for trading are given. A listed company could be exempted from Article 18 and its shares need not enter the delisting arrangement period for trading, if the company is in the process of bankruptcy and reorganization and it is confirmed by the court or the bankruptcy administrator that to have the company’s shares traded in the delisting arrangement period will collide with the implementation of the bankruptcy procedure or the company’s reorganization plan approved by the court. 　　(3) It is stipulated that companies planning major asset reorganization could independently determine whether to enter delisting arrangement period. To fully respect shareholders’ autonomy of will, the revisions details different requirements for delisted companies’ entering delisting arrangement period by prescribing that companies planning major asset reorganization should hold shareholders’ meetings to decide whether to terminate the reorganization and enter the delisting arrangement period for trading. The revised contents include: 　　1. Shareholders’ meeting should be held to choose proper situations 　　If a listed company has the possibility of being delisted by the SSE and its directorate meeting has discussed, approved and announced the plan to conduct major asset reorganization, its directorate should hold a shareholders’ meeting in time to decide whether to terminate the major asset reorganization and enter the delisting arrangement period for trading after the possible delisting of its shares. 　　2. Contents of proposals at shareholders’ meeting and requirements for voting 　　A listed company’s directorate should choose one of the following proposals to submit to the shareholders’ meeting for discussion: the company’s shares enter delisting arrangement period and major asset reorganization is terminated, or the company’s shares do not enter the delisting arrangement period and the major asset reorganization continues. The relevant proposals should be approved by more than 2/3 of all shareholders’ voting rights present at the meeting, and the listed company should release the voting results of the shareholders owning, separately or aggregately, less than 5% of the total issued shares. 　　3. Make arrangements according to voting results 　　The shareholders’ meeting should decide to terminate listing or enter the delisting arrangement period according to the voting results. 　　III. Revisions to the “Measures for Risk Alert Board” 　　It could be highly risky to trade shares in delisting arrangement period. To fully protect the interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors, and improve their risk awareness, the revisions adds contents on investor suitability. The detailed regulations are as follows: 　　Any individual investor who applies for buying shares in delisting arrangement period should have 2 years of experience in stock trading or above, and hold the assets of RMB0.5 million or above in his/her securities account and capital account. 　　In addition, 2 items were revised according to the actual conditions: 　　1. With the launch of the “integrated securities account”, an investor could open more than one securities account. Thus, “a single account” out of “The quantity of a single risk-alert stock accumulatively bought by a single account within one trading day shall be not more than 500,000 shares” in Article 10 is modified into “an investor”. 　　2. “Provisional Regulations” in the former name (the “SSE Provisional Regulations on Stock Trading on Risk Alert Board”, the “SSE Provisional Regulations” for short) is modified into “Administrative Measures”. Given the fact that relevant regulations in the “SSE Provisional Regulations” and their implementation have been stable since its release in 2012, the “Provisional Regulations” in the former name has been revised as “Administrative Measures”, that is, the “SSE Administrative Measures on Stock Trading on Risk Alert Board” (Revised in 2014). 　　IV. Opinion collection 　　The SSE made thorough studies on the opinions of the market after the opinion collection. In general, the majority support the delisting-related supporting rules, believing that they are positive in protecting investors’ interests and building a flexible market-oriented flow mechanism. Besides, some feedbacks put forward their advice and suggestions on some articles in the delisting-related supporting rules. 　　After careful study, the SSE made adjustments to some articles or statements according to the feedbacks. One of the major adjustments was that the SSE modified the interval for re-listing applications of delisted companies due to serious violations in information disclosure. According to some feedbacks, the harm brought by serious violations in information disclosure is similar to that brought by fraud issuance, and thus the interval for re-listing applications of companies delisted due to serious violations in information disclosure should be the same as that for fraud issuance. After careful study, the SSE holds that this suggestion is reasonable and has referred to it in the new regulation by deciding that the interval for re-listing applications of companies delisted with these 2 situations should be an entire fiscal year. 　　V. Arrangement during the transition period for re-listing 　　The SSE has already issued the revised “Listing Rules”, and relevant notices have developed regulations on the arrangement during the transition period for re-listing. To ensure the continuity of the delisting system’s implementation and do not disturb the investors’ original market expectations, companies delisted before the “Listing Rules” takes effect are applicable to the re-listing conditions prescribed in the former listing rules of the SSE in the principle of anti-retroactivity. The transition period will be 36 months after the “Listing Rules” takes effect. For regulations concerning the transition period for re-listing, please refer to the notice on releasing the “Listing Rules” issued by the SSE. 　　

SSE Promotes Regulatory Transformation to Activate Blue Chip Market
28 Jan 2014
　　The meeting of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) Party Committee, presided over by Gui Minjie, SSE Party Chief and Governor, was held on the afternoon of January 27, in a bid to publicize the spirit of the 2014 National Conference of Securities and Futures Regulatory System (the Conference), and put forward specified requirements for the SSE to implement the spirit of the Conference, meet the needs for regulatory transformation, and promote transformational development of the SSE. 　　Gui introduced the content of the Conference, and publicized the theme report delivered by Xiao Gang, and the discussions at the Conference. According to Gui, 2014 is the first year for comprehensively deepening reform. Regulatory transformation, in the backdrop of the present new situation and starting-point, is an indispensable task for the regulatory system of securities and futures to implement the key deployments of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council. Besides, it meets the requirements of the era in socialist market economy at this phase of social development. In addition, it is another significant reform for the regulatory system of securities and futures after the equity division reform, as well as an exploration of regulatory methods, concepts, and modes for the capital market in over two decades. Thus, regulatory transformation has its milestone significance. 　　Gui added that, regulation itself is a process which is unceasingly developing, improving, and changing with the market growth. China’s capital market has made remarkable achievements in the world, while some knotty problems have not been solved for a long time along with the development. Therefore, promoting regulatory transformation will facilitate breakthroughs in solving these problems and laying the foundation of regulatory mode for the stable and sound development of the capital market in the long run. However, regulatory transformation can not be accomplished in a short time. Rather, it is a systematic project in the development of the regulatory system of securities and futures in the next phase, or even in 5 to 10 years. It requires both courage and determination to promote regulatory transformation, as well as adequate estimation and full preparation for the long-term, complicated, hard, and challenging process. 　　At the meeting, Huang Hongyuan, Deputy Party Chief and President of the SSE, also talked about his thoughts after attending the Conference. Moreover, other members of the SSE Party Committee and the SSE President’s Office, according to what they had learnt after attending the Conference on video, carried out in-depth discussions on issues including the development of the capital market, difficulties in the SSE’s present tasks, and the direction of development in the future. 　　Consensus has been reached in the meeting of the SSE’s implementing the requirements of the Conference in the following aspects: 　　First, the SSE should earnestly perform its responsibilities and fully play its role in regulatory transformation. 　　The SSE should earnestly perform its responsibilities in regulatory transformation. First, it should effectively undertake the items of approval and record filing delegated by the organ of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). Second, it should check up the items of beforehand record filing, report, submission, examination and training, and cancel the items which are without legal basis after the check-up, or change them into aftermath record filing if they need to be kept. Third, it should promptly formulate corresponding measures on in-process and aftermath regulation, when reducing the number of items of beforehand record filing, report and submission. Specifically, the SSE should do a better job in the following aspects: 　　1. The SSE should promote openness and transparency of self-regulation. The SSE should formulate and release to the public the lists of its technologies, business lines, and regulatory issues, sort out issues related to verification, record filing and report in its self-regulation, with emphasis laid on activating the vitality of the blue chip market. Further, the SSE should publicize to the public its regulatory rules and results, and gradually make its regulatory process known to the public. In addition, the SSE should rationalize the mechanism of disciplinary punishments, standardize the measurement for punishments to enable the predictability of results of rule-breaking behaviors, and forbid arbitrary regulation. Moreover, the SSE should establish the mechanism of initiatively issuing risk alerts when emergent and significant events occur. 　　2. The SSE should propel the transformation of regulatory mode for information disclosure. In the over 2 decades’ practice of the capital market, a set of regulatory mode with “one-to-one” and “nanny” services has played an important role in the early stage of market building. However, in practical work, with the rapidly increasing number of listed companies and some changes in the market development, the former regulatory mode no longer meets the new needs of investors and fund raisers. Although the SSE has made considerable efforts, the market is not quite satisfactory, while the responsibilities of all market participants are not quite clear yet. Next, the SSE should, according to the needs of investors, explore the regulation on information disclosure by listed companies, under the backdrop of the registration system and the mode of Direct Channel. Besides, the SSE should generally implement the Direct Channel for information disclosure at a proper time, explore the aftermath checking mechanism for information disclosure, generally launch guidelines for information disclosure by industry, engage other parties to assess the formats of information disclosure, continue to enhance pertinence and effectiveness of and promote continuity and fairness of information disclosure. 　　3. The SSE should strengthen protection for legal rights and interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors. The SSE will appraise and improve its relevant business rules, implement specified requirements for protecting small and medium-sized investors in all processes of self-regulation. Besides, the SSE should, in its development of new products, attach more importance to the market needs and investors’ experience, take protection for small and medium-sized investors into full account, and provide services that are “easy to be understood” and “user-friendly”. In addition, the SSE will consider promoting the risk reserve system in case of rule-breaking behaviors of listed companies, and the system of assessment and appraisal of protection for legal rights and interests of small and medium-sized investors, complete the voting mechanism of small and medium-sized investors, and study the various mechanism of addressing disputes over rights and interests of small and medium-sized investors. 　　Second, the SSE should fully display functions to promote the development and transformation of the SSE market. 　　Apart from adapting to and implementing the requirements for regulatory transformation, the SSE, as a market organizer, should pay great attention to its own transformation. Specifically, it should do well in the following aspects. 　　1. It should focus on optimizing structure and greatly promote the development and transformation of the blue-chip market. Being the main battlefield of China’s capital market and the basis and core of China’s multi-layered capital market, the SSE should always regard serving the real economy and providing society with a wealth management platform as its basic responsibility and holy mission. At present, compared with the demands of economic and social development, the scale, financing function, service capacity, and overall strength of the SSE’s blue-chip market are far from satisfactory, the coverage of its service is narrow, and its attractiveness is not enough. As a result, a benign ecology has not formed yet. The SSE should speed up the transformation, optimize the structure and strengthen the functions of the blue-chip market, and increase the breadth and depth of the blue-chip market in serving the real economy. The first is to attract more companies. The SSE should attract more high-quality enterprises, especially enterprises in strategic emerging industries, to provide investors with more attractive investment targets, in addition to boosting the structure adjustment and the transformation and upgrading of the national economy. The second is to activate the companies. The SSE should support listed companies in making full use of the big platform of the SSE market and making them larger and stronger through such measures as re-financing, merger, acquisition and reorganization, asset injection, and overall listing. It should also provide service for state-owned enterprises to transform from product operation to capital management. The third is to enrich financial instruments. The SSE will, in line with relevant laws and regulations, steadily launch preferred stock and other financial instruments and innovate some trading mechanisms that especially suit the blue-chip market, in a bid to fully stimulate the vitality of the blue chip market, improve its attractiveness and competitiveness in the investment market. The fourth is to increase the return. The SSE should optimize the investor return mechanism, continuously supervise and guide the dividend distribution of listed companies, promote the balance between investment and financing of the capital market, and enhance the attractiveness of the blue-chip market, so as to make the blue-chip market an important place to attract various long-term funds in pursuit of maintenance and appreciation of values, such as social security funds, insurance capital, and public welfare funds. 　　2. The SSE should focus on strengthening functions and promote the coordinated development of stock, bond, fund and derivatives markets. At present, the SSE only focuses on its stock market. The underdeveloped fixed income market and wealth management market not only can’t meet the diversified demands of both investing and financing sides, but also can’t fully develop the real investing value and trading value of the blue-chip market, which has restrained the advantages of the blue-chip market and weakened its attractiveness. Next, the SSE will hold firm to the construction of the blue-chip market and try to propel the construction of the bond market and the fund derivatives market to make them complement and promote each other. The first is to make great efforts on developing and standardizing the bond market. The SSE will take the expansion of corporate bonds’ piloting as an opportunity and do a better job in the construction of supporting systems for expanding corporate bonds’ issuers and issuing methods. It will also further display its comprehensive advantage of “stock-bond interaction”, expand the scales of treasury bonds’ pre-issuance, policy-related financial bonds, and bond business lines of other financial institutions, increase the public offering scale of convertible bonds, propel the development of credit asset securitization, perfect the mechanisms of bond filing and issuance as well as bond listing and trading, integrate the bond trading systems, perfect the risk prevention measures and enhance the effectiveness of the bond market’s risk control mechanism. The second is to actively develop the fund market and support fund companies to develop more new products to meet the demands of different investors. The third is to do a better job in mock trading of single stock options, so as to fully prepare for the official launch of single stock options. 　　3. The SSE should focus on enhancing its competitiveness and greatly increase the market openness. With the increasingly rapid internationalization process of the RMB, the SSE should follow the development law of mature capital markets and orderly enhance the market openness according to the characteristics of China’s capital market. The first is to serve international securities trading. It will actively participate in the construction of the Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone, explore to set up an international financial assets trading platform, and promote overseas enterprises to issue RMB bonds on the SSE market. The second is to earnestly fuel the cooperation between Chinese and foreign exchanges. Efforts should be made on strengthening the cooperation of exchanges in Shanghai and Hong Kong, vigorously promoting the SSE indexes to be listed on major international exchanges, and supporting the inclusion of the A-share market into the international emerging market. The third is to strengthen the promotion and introduction of international investors. The SSE should make full use of the internet to carry out promotional activities that combine the market, the products, and the exchange image through various channels, so as to enhance the attention, attraction, and influence of the English version of the SSE website in the international capital market. 　　Third, the SSE should change its old concept so as to build a market-service-oriented and investor-friendly exchange. 　　The key to regulatory transformation is to become a market-service-oriented and investor-friendly market. The SSE will, by sticking to the concept of “macro service”, further improve the IPO-dominated service system and methods and try to enhance the professional service ability. It will deepen the work on cultivating small and medium-sized enterprises and strengthen the cooperation with the New Third Board, regional equity markets, and key national hi-tech zones. It will adhere to “transparent” construction and use micro-blog, WeChat, “SSE E-interaction Platform”, and other new media platforms, as well as the press conference system, in a bid to release the innovations of the SSE’s products and business lines in time. Besides, it will lead all market participants to comprehensively and objectively recognize the innovation of the industry, improve an array of new mechanisms such as performance promotion meeting and performance briefing session, and set up an efficient, transparent, and rational platform for industry communication, so as to greatly enhance the transparency of listed companies’ operation. 　　SSE Governor Gui Minjie said that vigorously studying and earnestly implementing the requirements for regulatory transformation and relevant deployment is the most important task for the SSE at present, which will be a key long-term task. Regulatory transformation, more than an idea, should be reflected in the practice of each specific work. Regulatory transformation and the construction of the blue-chip market should be combined together to boost the transformation of the SSE’s development, which will activate the vitality of the blue-chip market, stimulate demands on the blue-chip market, and enhance the intrinsic power of the blue-chip market. 　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Appraisal Result of “2013 Best Participating Institutions on SSE Bond Market” Unveiled
20 Jan 2014
　　With the rapid development and remarkable scale expansion of the bond market of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) over recent years, commercial banks, insurance institutions, securities companies, fund companies, and other market institutions have been actively participating in the SSE bond market. According to indicators such as institutional underwriting and bond trading of 2013, the SSE has recently selected the 2013 best institutions on the SSE bond market in 5 categories, namely, the “Best Bond Dealer”, the “Best Underwriter of Corporate Bonds”, the “Best Sponsor for Listing of Enterprise Bonds”, the “Best Market-maker for Treasury Bonds”, and the “Best Innovative Institution for Bond Business”.   　　The name-list of the 2013 best participating institutions on the SSE bond market is as follows:   　　1. “Best Bond Dealer” 　　(1) Bank of Communications Co., Ltd. (commercial bank); 　　(2) Taikang Assets Management Co., Ltd. (insurance company); 　　(3) CITIC Securities Co., Ltd. (securities company); 　　(4) Fullgoal Fund Management Co., Ltd. (fund company);   　　2. “Best Underwriter of Corporate Bonds” 　    　CITIC Securities Co., Ltd.;   　　3. “Best Sponsor for Listing of Enterprise Bonds” 　　    China Development Bank Securities Co., Ltd.;   　　4. “Best Market-maker for Treasury Bonds” 　　    Guosen Securities Co., Ltd.;   　　5. “Best Innovative Institution for Bond Business” 　　    Guotai Junan Securities Co., Ltd.   　　    Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE: Rational Investment in New Shares
17 Jan 2014
　　"Neway Valve (Suzhou) Co., Ltd." will be listed at the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) for trading on January 17. As the first share listed on the market after suspension of new share issuance for one and a half years, share issuance of Neway Valve has attracted wide attention from the market. Market insiders point out that, presently, as China’s securities market is still at the stage of “Emerging and Transformation”, the problem of new shares speculation remains salient. Small and medium investors, lacking knowledge and experience for investment, often fall victim to new shares speculation. 　　Between listing of “Sichuan Expressway Company Limited” in July 2009 and listing of “China Molybdenum Co., Ltd.” in October 2012, a total of 98 new shares have been listed for trading on the Shanghai market in nearly three and a half years. According to the trading statistics of the first listing day and the later 5 trading days of new shares, taking an example of accounts with buy-in amount under RMB100,000 on the first day of new shares listing, 54.4% of these accounts on average suffer losses 6 days later. Moreover, over 80% of accounts of 33 new shares (33.7% of all new shares listed during this period) suffer losses, while over 98% of accounts of 8 new shares (8.2% of all new shares listed during this period) suffer losses. It shows that, many small and medium investors following suit to purchase new shares on the first day of their listing or several days later have lost out. 　　In order to curb new shares speculation after restart of new shares issuance, maintain normal trading order on the market, and protect legal rights and interests of investors, the SSE issued the “Notice of Toughening Regulation on Trading at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing” (the “Notice” for short) to the market on December 13, 2013. The “Notice” established a trading suspension mechanism on the first day of listing based on issuance prices of new shares, specified the “abnormal trading behaviors” under special regulation, and the “abnormal fluctuation in trading” during the early stage of new shares listing, as well as strengthened restrictions on trading behaviors of investors on new shares. 　　According to market insiders, compared with the relevant notice issued by the SSE in 2012, the “Notice” released in 2013 further highlighted control over speculative behaviors on the market and protection for investors. For example, the “Notice” added the measure on order price restriction on the first day of new shares listing, namely, investors’ valid order prices on the first day of new shares listing should meet Article I of the “Notice”, while any orders exceeding the valid order price range should be deemed as invalid. In addition, after market closing on the first day of new shares listing, investors may search relevant information about buying or selling of certain new shares by investors of all categories on the very day on the item of “Trading information on the first day of new shares listing” under the column of “Disclosure of trading information” on the SSE’s official website, which will facilitate investors to learn about trading details on the first day of new shares listing, and trade new shares rationally. 　　As for newly listed shares such as shares in Neway Valve, an official of the SSE says that, the SSE will regulate the whole process of pre-market-opening, market trading, and post-market-closing during the early stage of new shares listing. 　　According to trading of new shares on the market over recent years, the SSE has sorted out over 200 major accounts dealing in new shares speculation and reported them to relevant securities companies, and required them to pay high attention to the trading of new shares by these accounts. Recently, the SSE has visited some securities companies and offered on-site supervision and guidance for their administration on trading behaviors of clients during the early stage of new shares listing. Further, the SSE sends information about trading regulation during the early stage of new shares listing to all securities companies on the trading day before new shares listing, and requires the securities companies to send relevant information to their clients on time. The SSE will also release information about trading regulation during the early stage of new shares listing to the market on its official micro-blog, so as to remind investors of risks in new shares trading. Besides, during the early stage of new shares listing, the SSE will, depending on fluctuations of trading prices, issue risk alerts to investors in proper occasions through its official micro-blog and other ways. 　　The official of the SSE reiterates the SSE’s attitude on strict regulation on some accounts speculating on new shares. During the early stage (the first 10 trading days) of new shares listing, if an account has any abnormal trading behaviors of new shares as mentioned in the “Notice”, such as the in-session buy-in amount on a single day exceeding 0.1% of the number of relevant floating shares, the SSE will adopt regulatory measure on in-session trading suspension for the account on the very day. If an account’s in-session trading has been suspended for several times, the SSE will impose disciplinary punishment on limiting the account’s purchase of all kinds of A shares in the Shanghai market on several trading days. If an account’s trading has been limited twice or above, the SSE will, in light of the market situation, regard the account’s owner as an ineligible investor, and limit its trading during the early stage of new shares listing within a certain period. For the accounts badly speculating on new shares, the SSE will further analyze circumstances and report the accounts suspected of committing violations to the China Securities Regulatory Commission for sanctions. 　　The SSE stresses again that individual investors, and professional institutional investors including fund companies, insurance companies, and trust companies should strictly abide by the “Notice” in their trading during the early stage of new shares listing. All investors, especially small and medium-sized investors, should fully understand risks in speculation on new shares, rationally trade new shares, and maintain a steady market. 　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Strengthening Regulation on Information Disclosure of Reorganization, Promoting Protection on Investors’ Rights, Interests: SSE Releases “Continuous Information Disclosure of Reorganized Companies”
14 Jan 2014
　　Lately, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) released the “No. 10 Memorandum of Information Disclosure of Significant Asset Reorganization of Listed Companies – Continuous Information Disclosure of Reorganized Companies” (the Memo for short). 　　It is learnt that the Memo further standardizes the verification, affirmation, and commitment of relevant matters before a listed company’s reorganization and trading suspension, as well as the continuous information disclosure during the period of reorganization and trading suspension and after disclosure of the reorganization scheme, and strengthens the duty fulfillment of the reorganized company’s directorate. The Memo, coupled with other reorganization memorandums previously released by the SSE, constitutes the overall requirements for the continuous information disclosure of reorganized companies. 　　Specifically, the Memo mainly includes the following aspects: 　　First, it standardizes the verification, affirmation, and commitment of relevant matters before a listed company’s significant asset reorganization and trading suspension. It requires that if the clarification announcement or the announcement on abnormal fluctuation of stock trading, issued by a listed company due to rumors of significant asset reorganization, involves affirmation of reorganization issues, the reply of the company’s controlling shareholder or actual controller should be disclosed at the same time as an annex for the announcement. If a listed company and related parties have not begun to plan for reorganization but cannot make sure whether they will start to plan for reorganization within 3 months, the Memo requires that the listed company and related parties should immediately hold a briefing for investors to explain the situation. With regard to the listed company and related parties promising not to plan for reorganization within 3 months, the Memo specifies the specific content of “planning for reorganization”. 　　Second, it strengthens the duty fulfillment of reorganized company’s directorate. In order to avoid the situation that a listed company terminates reorganization at will after releasing a reorganization scheme, the Memo requires that the reorganized company’s directorate should perform duty fulfillment. An intermediary should be commissioned to investigate the trading parties, and effective and feasible default-related compensation article and divulgation-related compensation article should be stipulated in the reorganization agreement attached with entry-into-force conditions. If abovementioned articles cannot be added in the reorganization agreement, specific reasons should be given. With regard to the situation that all trading parties decide upon discussion to terminate reorganization after having released a reorganization scheme, the Memo requires the relevant company’s directorate to demonstrate the reasons for approving the termination and the influence of the termination of reorganization on the listed company, to explain whether it will lead to economic loss, and to specify the measures (if applicable) that the directorate has taken or is to take to recover the losses in the announcement on termination of reorganization. 　　Third, it intensifies the information disclosure during reorganization and trading suspension. According to relevant rules including the “Notice of Strengthening Regulation on Abnormal Stock Trading Related to Significant Assets Reorganization of Listed Companies” issued by the SSE, the period for listed companies’ reorganization and trading suspension should not exceed 30 natural days, and if it is necessary to delay the trading resumption, the accumulative trading suspension period shall not exceed 3 months. In order to protect investors’ right to know and prevent listed companies from abusing the trading suspension system, the Memo requires listed companies to disclose the introduction of reorganization framework, current reorganization progress, specific reasons for failing to resume trading as schedule, and the predicted date of trading resumption in the announcement on delaying trading resumption. The introduction of reorganization framework should at least include the major trading counterpart, trading method, target asset, as well as the examination and approval that need to get from relevant government departments before holding the first directorate meeting (if applicable). 　　Fourth, it standardizes listed companies’ obligation of continuous information disclosure after disclosing the reorganization scheme, especially the timely disclosure of reorganization risks. The Memo requires that after disclosing the reorganization scheme or the draft report, listed companies should timely disclose any change or adjustment in market environment, trading counterpart, and target asset, and any problem in the communication among reorganization parties. 　　If listed companies, due to various reasons, terminate significant asset reorganization after disclosing the reorganization scheme, they should timely perform the decision-making process, hold a briefing for investors, and disclose relevant information in line with the Memo and the “No. 9 Memorandum of Information Disclosure of Significant Asset Reorganization of Listed Companies – Information Disclosure of Listed Companies Terminating Significant Asset Reorganization (Trial)” released by the SSE in July 2013. 　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Commercial Banks May Issue Corporate Bonds at SSE to Replenish Capital
10 Jan 2014
　　On November 8, 2013, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and the China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) jointly issued the “Guiding Opinions on Commercial Banks Issuing Corporate Bonds to Replenish Capital” (the “Guiding Opinions” for short), which allows listed and to-be-listed commercial banks to issue corporate bonds at exchanges to replenish capital. The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has also recently released the “Notice on Commercial Banks Issuing Corporate Bonds to Replenish Capital and the Issues Related to Listing, Trading and Transfer of the Bonds” (the “Notice” for short), which makes specific provisions on listing and trading, transfer, information disclosure, and other issues related to corporate bonds issued by commercial banks for capital replenishment at the SSE. The issuance of the “Guiding Opinions” and the “Notice” symbolizes that channels of commercial banks for capital replenishment have been expanded to the exchange markets, which is of positive significance for promoting the innovation of capital instruments in the banking sector and improving the integration of China’s bond market. 　　With regard to the international background, after the subprime mortgage crisis, the regulators in the world are paying more and more attention to a series of flaws in the constraint mechanism of bank capital exposed in the crisis, where, for example, bank capital lacked adequate capacity for loss absorption. To this end, the Basel Agreement Ⅲ has set up the hierarchical regulatory requirements for capital adequacy ratio, and established the more stringent eligibility criteria for capital instruments. Since 2012, the CBRC has successively issued the “Measures (Trial) for Capital Management of Commercial Banks” and other policies and regulations to thoroughly usher in the latest international capital regulatory requirements, sorting capital instruments into Core Tier 1 capital instruments, other Tier 1 capital instruments, and Tier 2 capital instruments. Particularly, one of the conditions for eligible Tier 2 capital instruments is the necessity of including the terms of writing down or shares conversion, which shall stipulate that when a trigger event occurs, the instrument can be written down or converted into ordinary shares immediately. 　　For a long time, there have been few capital replenishment instruments in China's banking sector, only including a small number of products such as ordinary shares and subordinated debts, with the relative lack of other Tier 1 capital instruments and Tier 2 capital instruments. Since January 1, 2013, stock subordinated debts and other supplementary capitals have been rolled back in a pace of 10% every year. In the face of new capital regulatory requirements, China’s banking sector has seen huge pressure on capital replenishment, and commercial banks are in urgent need of promoting the innovation of the capital instruments so as to adapt to the international financial regulatory trend and enhance the capacity for loss absorption; the promotion of the innovation in capital instruments will help optimize the capital structure, strengthen the driving force for the transformational development of China’s banking sector, and improve the international competitiveness of China's banks; moreover, the promotion of the innovation in capital instruments is also conducive to deepening the reform of the financial system and safeguarding the stability of domestic capital market. 　　Recently, the CBRC will focus on actively promoting the pilot issuance of the Tier 2 capital instruments with write-down terms (the write-down bond for short). The write-down bond is the bank capital that can be used for loss absorption in the case of unsustainable operation, which has the eligibility criteria such as ranking after depositors and general creditors in the order of being compensated, not less than 5 years of original maturity, and the mechanism of triggering write-down to achieve loss absorption under the circumstances of being unable to exist. Currently, a number of banks including state-owned banks, joint-stock banks, and city commercial banks have successively applied to the CBRC for the issuance of write-down bonds. 　　It is learnt that since last year regulatory authorities and the SSE have jointly promoted the pilot issuance of write-down bonds at the SSE in an active manner. In recent years, the SSE has energetically pushed forward the development of the bond market with the market size significantly expanded. By the end of 2013, the SSE had listed 1,686 bonds, an increase of 65% from the end of 2012; the bond trusteeship volume had reached RMB1.7219 trillion, up by 62 % compared to the end of 2012. The whole year of 2013 saw a total bond transaction of RMB62.6 trillion at the SSE, an increase of 65 % compared to the whole year of 2012, with the number of the listed bonds, the trusteeship volume, and the trading volume hitting historical new highs. In terms of the market structure and the infrastructure, the SSE bond market has the features such as diversified trading mechanisms, efficient repo market, open and transparent information disclosure, and extensive groups of investors. 　　Based on the above analysis, commercial banks issuing write-down bonds at the SSE is of positive significance in various aspects: first, it will help the banks take advantage of diversified investors of the SSE to further expand the financing channels of the banks, diversify the risks of the banking system, and speed up the innovation of capital instruments; second, it will improve the cooperation between the commercial banks and the SSE and accumulate experience for issuing other capital instruments on the SSE market in the future; third, it will enrich the SSE’s bond products and meet investors’ diverse demands for investment; fourth, it will give full play to the role of the open and transparent pricing mechanism of the SSE and improve China's bond yield curve; fifth, it will deepen the reform of the issuing system of China’s bond market and promote the integration of the bond market. 　　An SSE official said that according to the “Guiding Opinions”, the commercial banks listed on securities exchanges, or the domestic commercial banks that have issued overseas listed foreign shares, or the commercial banks applying for domestic initial public issuance of shares with their applications still to be approved, may issue write-down bonds at the SSE. After obtaining the confirmation for the attribute of capital instrument and the regulatory opinions of the CBRC, an issuer may choose the public issuance after being approved by the CSRC or the non-public issuance after filing with the SSE. The investors in each phase of non-public-issuance of write-down bonds shall not be more than 200 persons in total. In addition to the specific provisions on arrangements for the listing, trading and transfer of write-down bonds on the SSE, the “Notice” also stipulates the materials, the contents of the prospectus, and the filing procedure as required in the filing with the SSE for the non-public issuance of write-down bonds. 　　Considering the special risk factors related to the write-down terms, the SSE has affirmed in the “Notice” the corresponding risk control mechanism: First, the requirement for investor suitability management. The investors participating in the subscription for and the trading of publicly issued write-down bonds shall be the professional investors meeting the provisions of the “SSE Interim Measures for Investor Suitability Management of Bond Market”. The investors of the non-publicly-issued write-down bonds shall be the eligible investors stipulated in the “Notice”; Second, the differentiated arrangements of trading mechanisms. Only the write-down bonds publicly issued by the issuers with a total asset of more than RMB5 trillion at the end of the latest period when the bonds are issued may be traded at the SSE in bidding and other modes; Third, strengthening the regulation over the continuous information disclosure for write-down bonds. The “Notice” provides that in addition to fulfilling the obligation of regular information disclosure in accordance with the provisions on corporate bonds and the prospectus, issuers and other obligors for information disclosure shall timely disclose special information including trigger events of Tier 2 capital instruments and other Tier 1 capital instruments, other events having major impacts on capital adequacy ratio, and redemption. 　　The issuance of the “Notice” has paved a way for the smooth introduction of commercial banks issuing write-down bonds at the SSE in the future. The SSE will continue to step up the service for the market, actively support commercial banks and relevant regulators in propelling the pilot issuance of new-type Tier 2 capital instruments, and jointly contribute to the reform, innovation, prosperity, and development of China’s capital market. 　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

1st Batch of CDB Bonds Issued on SSE Listed, Traded
08 Jan 2014
　　The first batch of bonds of China Development Bank (“CDB Bonds” for short) was listed through the auction trading system of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) on January 7. Relevant varieties listed are “CDB 1301” and “CDB 1302”. An amount of RMB0.51 billion has been traded on the very day, of which, “CDB 1301” claims a trading amount of RMB0.41 billion with its average trading price being RMB99.94, while “CDB 1302” claims a trading amount of RMB0.1 billion with its average trading price being RMB99.89. Listing and trading of CDB Bonds on the SSE marks the launch of policy-related financial bonds on the exchange market, as well as the continuous orderly rationalization of the interflow between on-floor and over-the-counter bond markets. After listing of CDB Bonds, all social public investors including individuals may participate in trading of CDB Bonds. 　　Issuance and trading of CDB Bonds on the SSE is a significant measure of strengthening reform of the bond market and promoting the interflow between on-floor and over-the-counter bond markets by the People’s Bank of China and the China Securities Regulatory Commission. According to an official of the SSE, regulatory authorities, in the first half of last year, decided upon the pilot issuance of RMB30 billion CDB Bonds on the SSE, as well as conducted an array of discussions and researches on the scheme of the pilot issuance, the arrangement of listing and trading, and the mechanism of regulation and coordination. Through active communication and close cooperation, the SSE and China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd. have gone all out to carry out supporting work on business rules and procedures, according to the characteristics of CDB Bonds. The SSE and CDB issued relevant business rules and issuance measures respectively on December 24 and 25, 2013. The first batch of CDB Bonds was issued by tendering through the SSE bond issuance system on December 27, 2013, and it was distributed offline from December 30, 2013 to January 3, 2014. Besides, its registration work was completed on January 6, 2014. It is shown in the results of tendering and distribution that in addition to members of the underwriting groups, such as commercial banks, securities companies, and insurance assets management companies, China’s social security funds, insurance products, and enterprise annuities, and some individual investors have participated in subscription for CDB Bonds through underwriters. Thus, “CDB 1301” has become the first policy-related financial bond with the participation of individual investors in subscription. 　　According to sources, “CDB 1301” and “CDB 1302” are two-year and five-year bond varieties respectively, both of which are bonds with fixed interest rate. They are underwritten by the underwriting groups consisting 47 financial institutions, including 15 listed banks, 3 insurance institutions, and 29 securities companies, with Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, Agricultural Bank of China, China Construction Bank, Bank of Communications, CITIC Securities, and Orient Securities as lead underwriters. The issuance volume of “CDB 1301” is RMB8 billion, with the coupon rate being 5.8%, while the issuance volume of “CDB 1302” is RMB4 billion, with the coupon rate being 5.84%. 　　An official of the SSE says that, the SSE will rationalize the pilot issuance of the remaining lines of CDB Bonds in the future, and study on bond products meeting the features of the exchange market. Moreover, under the guidance of relevant competent authorities, the SSE will improve the mechanisms for issuance and trading of policy-related financial bonds, and complete all-round preparation work for regular issuance of policy-related financial bonds on the SSE, in a bid to propel the sound development of China’s bond market.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Releases “Management Measures on Open-end Fund Business”
08 Jan 2014
　　The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently released the “SSE Management Measures on Open-end Fund Business” (the “Measures” for short), in order to support the innovative development of the fund market and better serve all participants in the fund market. The “Measures” was implemented as of the issuance day, and the “SSE Rules (Trial) on Business Lines for Subscription, Purchase, and Redemption of Open-end Funds” (Shang Zheng Zhai Zi [2005] No. 29) issued previously was abolished at the same time. 　　The “Measures” specifies an array of business lines related to subscription, purchase, redemption, trading, and trusteeship transfer of open-end funds, as well as splitting and merging of split-capital fund units on the SSE. The open-end funds specified by the “Measures” include Listed Open-end Fund in the Shanghai market (the SSE LOF for short) and funds of the former Mutual Funds Distribution Channel (which can be subscribed for, purchased, redeemed on the SSE but cannot be listed for trading) and do not include Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) and Traded Money Market Funds. 　　Since the implementation of the “Measures”, open-ended funds that meet the listing requirements can apply for listing and trading on the SSE; basic units and split units of split-capital funds can apply for listing and trading at the same time; and real-time pairing and conversion between basic units and split units can be achieved through splitting and merging. 　　Compared with the existing LOFs in the market, the SSE LOFs have the following characteristics: 　　The first is complete functions. Both basic units and split units of split-capital funds can apply for listing and trading. The listing and trading of basic units can provide their holders with a convenient exit channel. Besides, the SSE LOFs support the practice that a fund manager sets graded rates according to different holding periods of investor’s fund units, and investor’s cross-market trusteeship transfer will not influence the counting of holding periods. 　　The second is high efficiency. Fund units bought by an investor can apply for redemption on the same day, thus enhancing the arbitrage efficiency between the primary market and the secondary market. The SSE LOFs support on-floor real-time splitting and merging of split-capital funds, that is, basic units of split-capital funds can be split in real time into split units for selling, and split units can also be merged together as basic units for selling or redeeming. The real-time splitting and merging will help to stabilize discount and premium in the secondary fund market, improve the arbitrage mechanism between basic units and split units of split-capital funds, and enhance the pricing efficiency. 　　The third is conforming to investor’s trading practice. The SSE LOFs adopt the application methods of on-floor “Subscription by Amount”, “Purchase by Amount”, “Redemption of Fund Units”, and “Trusteeship Transfer of Fund Units”, which is the same as those of over-the-counter open-end funds and much conforms to investor’s trading practice. 　　Recently, the Department of Fund Supervision of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) has released the “Guidance on Registering Long/Short Split-capital Funds”, and the SSE has joined hands with many fund companies in reporting to the CSRC the application of raising the SSE LOFs and split-capital funds. As the market business and technology have been ready, products of the SSE LOFs and split-capital funds are predicted to be launched soon. 　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE: Protecting Investors’ Rights, Interests to Bring People Together, Gain Popularity
02 Jan 2014
　　Everything looks fresh with the coming of spring. The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) declared that according to the requirements of the “Opinions on Further Strengthening the Protection of Small and Medium-sized Investors’ Legitimate Rights and Interests in Capital Market” released by the General Office of the State Council, the SSE will adopt measures in different aspects, continue to strengthen efforts on protecting investors’ rights and interests, highlight the market’s fairness and justice, and further deepen the friendship with investors in the new year, so as to bring people together, gain popularity, and promote the sound development of the market. 　　The SSE Composite Index has fallen by 6.75% accumulatively in 2013. The SSE said that though it is not suitable for the market service and regulatory work to take the increase of the Index as the goal, the market performance still reflects the economic structure, the listed companies’ structure, the investment preferences, and other underlying institutional factors in different aspects. However, in face of such situation, all staff of the SSE still feels very anxious. They should make in-depth reflection on whether investors have experienced fairness and justice in the investing activities of the Shanghai market, whether the investing environment of the Shanghai market is friendly, convenient, and safe enough, and whether the Shanghai market has fully adapted to the direction and pace of the adjustment to the economic structure and met investors’ demands. 　　“We should first make introspection as introspection can lead to courage and second be inclined to goodness which will lead to the future.” An official of the SSE said that in terms of the SSE, strengthening the protection of investors’ rights and interests should first focus on the regulation on listed companies due to a very simple reason: investors have contacted with listed companies most frequently and the regulation on listed companies is one of the most fundamental and most pivotal service projects provided by the SSE for investors. “In recent years, we have increasingly felt that to achieve the sound development of the market, we should pay attention to both its investing function and its financing function. Apart from such economic factors as evaluation as well as supply and demand, such social factors as fairness and justice also have great significance to the market’s good development. As a result, we should proceed from the most fundamental and most pivotal work of service and regulation, safeguard the principle of ‘openness, fairness, and justice’, and protect the legitimate rights and interests of investors, especially the small and medium-sized investors, so as to promote the sound development of the market.” 　　Since the beginning of 2013, the SSE has demanded that some listed companies that have triggered market attention and query should hold meetings to explain the circumstances and directly respond to the reasonable query of the market and the public; it has released the “Implementation Measures of Disciplinary Sanction and Regulation” and integrated various punishment measures with an aim to enrich regulation methods and enhance the transparency of the regulation; it has explored to establish the Rapid Response Mechanism of Regulation on Listed Companies with an aim to make positive interaction with the media and the market and to enhance the pertinence and effectiveness of the regulatory work; it has launched the interactive information disclosure service of “SSE E-interaction Platform” to provide an effective tool for listed companies to enhance their transparency and increase their awareness and capacity of serving shareholders. Besides, the SSE has also launched the direct channel for information disclosure to urge information disclosure obligators to fulfill their responsibility, and coordinated with all sectors of society to do well in regulation; it has pushed forward the industry-classified information disclosure with an aim to further reveal the companies’ investing value and clarify investment factors, so as to provide new methods for enhancing the effectiveness of information disclosure; it has also released the “Guidance for Cash Dividend Distribution”, tried to transfer differentiated regulatory pressure to listed companies, and led listed companies to positively reward investors. “It should be mentioned that these measures have helped to protect investors’ legitimate rights and interests. Their effects are to be tested by the market and are to be shown gradually”, said the SSE official. 　　The SSE proposed that in the new year, in terms of the market entrance, it requires that “fraud-listed” issuers should buy back all the IPO-related shares in line with the revised “Guidance on Format of Listing Announcement” and compensate for investors’ losses according to law; and it will implement relevant rules on stabilizing share prices, decreasing shareholding, lock-up period, and shareholding intention. With regard to continuous regulation, the SSE will timely optimize a series of new measures launched in 2013, such as fully implementing the direct channel at the proper time, increasing listed companies’ frequency of holding explanation meetings, expanding the coverage of industry-classified information disclosure, improving the rapid response mechanism, optimizing the functions of the “E-interaction” platform, and setting up a blue-chip board with high yield; it will explore in the continuous information disclosure system; moreover, it will further strengthen the transparency of the market, and formulate and release the list of the SSE’s technologies, business lines, and regulation; it will explore a performance evaluation working mechanism on regulation based on investors’ comments; and it will also build a regulatory mode that will help to protect investors’ rights and interests and adapt to the new development situation of the market. 　　It is learnt that the SSE will make improvements, then disclose in due time to the market, in such aspects as enriching product varieties, meeting investors’ demands, optimizing listed companies’ structure and quality, enhancing the vitality of the blue-chip market, and cracking down on illegal behaviors on the market in 2014. 　　The SSE has noticed that since the end of last year, major professional institutes in the market have released their research reports one after another, over half of which were positive of the Shanghai market in 2014 and less than 20% were pessimistic. Most professional institutes believed that the market is more likely to go up in 2014 rather than go down for the following reasons. First, the 3rd Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee (the “3rd Plenary Session” for short) has changed the middle and long term economic expectation of investors and the reform will lead to the increase of risk preferences and the long-term incremental capital’s entering into the market; second, the macro-economy is gradually ascertaining the bottom and enterprises’ earnings have been recovered; finally, the global economic recovery led by developed markets will provide cushion for China’s reform. 　　“We cannot predict the results of the ups and downs of the Shanghai market in the new year. But we believe that strengthening the protection of investors’ rights and interests will help to enhance the users’ experience in the Shanghai market, bring people together and gain popularity. It is hoped that the market and all sectors of society will continue to care for, support, and supervise the SSE’s work and jointly promote the sound development of the SSE market.” said relevant official of the SSE. 　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice on Doing Good Job in Listed Companies’ Annual Reports of 2013
31 Dec 2013
　　All listed companies, 　　To complete the disclosure of listed companies’ annual reports of 2013 (the “2013 annual reports” for short), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby notifies relevant issues as follows, according to the “Rules No. 2 on Contents and Format of Information Disclosure by Companies Publicly Issuing Securities -- Contents and Format of Annual Reports” (hereinafter referred to as the “Rules on Annual Reports”) of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and the “SSE Stock Listing Rules” (hereinafter referred to as the “Listing Rules”). 　　I. General Requirement 　　(I). Listed companies’ boards of directors should organize relevant personnel to earnestly study all rules, released by the CSRC and the SSE, on the compilation, submission, and disclosure of the 2013 annual reports, as well as fulfill the obligation of disclosing the 2013 annual reports according to requirement. 　　(II). Listed companies should strictly follow all the SSE’s business guidelines and business manuals related to the direct channel for information disclosure issued by the SSE, choose the correct category of announcements in the business administration system of companies, as well as operate submission for relevant documents of information disclosure, in a bid to ensure successful completion of the disclosure work of the 2013 annual reports. 　　(III). Directors, supervisors, senior management members, and other insiders of listed companies shall assume secret-keeping obligations before the disclosure of the 2013 annual reports. No one is allowed to divulge the contents of the annual reports in any way before the disclosure. 　　II. Detailed Requirements 　　(I). Disclosure Time 　　All companies listed on the SSE before December 31, 2013 should compile, submit and disclose the 2013 annual reports before April 30, 2014, with the disclosure time not later than the time of disclosing the first quarter reports of 2014. The companies newly listed between January 1 and April 30, 2014 should also disclose their annual reports of 2013 before April 30, 2014 if they fail to disclose the audited financial accounting information of 2013 in their listing announcements. 　　The SSE encourages listed companies to publish their annual reports on their own websites, but the time of disclosure cannot be earlier than that of the disclosure on the SSE website. If a listed company predicts it is unable to disclose its annual report of 2013 before April 30, 2014, it should submit a written report to the SSE before April 15, 2014, and announce the reason, solution and deadline of the postponed disclosure. The SSE will suspend trading of shares and derivatives issued by the listed company from the first trading day in May 2014, and publicly criticize the listed company and those responsible, according to relevant rules in the "SSE Measures for Disciplinary Sanctions and Regulatory Measures”. 　　(II). Performance Prediction 　　Listed companies should make performance predictions before January 31, 2014 according to the Articles 11.3.1 and 11.3.2 of the “Listing Rules”. Audit committees and independent directors of listed companies should, in accordance with relevant regulations, timely communicate with the companies and their certified public accountants for annual audit, and pay attention to the performance predictions and relevant corrections. 　　(III). Performance Express 　　A listed company should disclose a performance express according to the Articles 11.3.5 and 11.3.6 of the “Listing Rules” if its performance information is divulged in advance or abnormal fluctuations happen to trading of shares or derivatives issued by it because of performance rumors prior to the official disclosure of its annual report. 　　(IV). Risk Alert Announcement 　　According to the Articles 13.2.2 and 14.1.2 in the “Listing Rules”, listed companies should release risk alert announcement before January 31, 2014, as well as disclose risk alert announcement twice at least before disclosing the 2013 annual reports, when predicting situation of possible delisting risk alert or listing suspension due to audited net profits, year-end net assets, and business revenue, as well as classification of audit opinions. 　　According to the Article 14.3.2 in the “Listing Rules”, listed companies should release an announcement on risk alert within 10 days after the accounting year ends, when predicting situation of possible listing termination due to audited net profits after excluding extraordinary profit and loss, year-end net assets, and business revenue, as well as classification of audit opinions or failing to disclose annual reports of the recent year within the legal time limit. 　　(V). Registration of Insiders of Inside Information 　　Listed companies should make efforts on the registration of insiders of inside information in the annual reports. If a listed company needs to submit information to external parties after the compilation of the annual reports and before their disclosure, it should register relevant staffs of the external parties as insiders of inside information. 　　(VI). Disclosure Focuses 　　1. Cash Dividend Distribution 　　According to the “Notice of Further Implementing Cash Dividend Distribution of Listed Companies” (Zheng Jian Fa [2012] No. 37 Document), the “No. 3 Regulatory Guidelines of Listed Companies: Cash Dividend Distribution of Listed Companies” (CSRC Announcement [2013] No. 43 Document), and the “Guidelines for Cash Dividend Distribution of SSE-listed Companies”, listed companies should disclose in details the formulation and implementation of cash dividend distribution policies to make clear whether the policies accord with the provisions in the Articles of Association or meet the requirements of the resolutions at shareholders’ meetings, the standards and proportions of cash dividend distribution are clear and explicit, relevant procedures and mechanisms for policy making are complete, independent directors fulfill their duties and play their roles, small and medium-sized shareholders have the opportunities to express opinions and appeals, and their legal rights and interests are well protected. If a listed company needs to adjust or change its cash dividend distribution policy, it should explain in details whether the conditions and procedures for adjustment or change are compliant and transparent. 　　2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis 　　Listed companies should give a retrospect and prospect of business performances within the reporting period and future development plans as well as risks in strict accordance with the requirements for information disclosure in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” in the “Rules on Annual Reports”. 　　3. Internal Control 　　When disclosing the 2013 annual reports, listed companies in the following cases should disclose directorates’ self-evaluation reports on internal control (hereinafter referred to as the “internal control reports”) according to relevant regulations and requirements. 　　(1). SSE-listed companies in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector; 　　(2). financial companies; 　　(3). companies issuing shares both inside and outside China; 　　(4). listed companies meeting the requirements in the “Notice on Implementation of System of Rules for Internal Control of Listed Companies on the Main Board by Category and in Batches in 2012” (Cai Ban Hui [2012] No. 30 Document). 　　The SSE encourages those that plan to apply for qualifications in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector and other listed companies to disclose internal control reports. 　　Those issuing shares inside and outside China as well as the listed companies meeting the requirements in the “Notice on Implementation of System of Rules for Internal Control of Listed Companies on the Main Board by Category and in Batches in 2012” (Cai Ban Hui [2012] No. 30 Document) should disclose audit reports issued by the certified public accountants on internal control of financial reports (hereinafter referred to as “audit reports on internal control”) together with internal control reports. The SSE encourages other listed companies to disclose audit reports on internal control. 　　Other SSE-listed companies should also attach importance to the establishment of the internal control systems according to the “Basic Rules for Enterprises’ Internal Control”, the “Supporting Guidelines for Enterprises’ Internal Control” and other requirements, and disclose the base for establishing internal control of financial reports and the status of the establishment of internal control systems in the part of “Internal Control”. 　　If a listed company discloses its internal control report, its directorate should discuss those reports separately and disclose them on the SSE’s website in the form of separate reports. 　　4. Social Responsibility Report 　　SSE-listed companies in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector, those issuing shares both inside and outside China, and financial companies should disclose the reports on fulfillment of social responsibilities (hereinafter referred to as “social responsibility reports”) together with the 2013 annual reports. The SSE encourages other qualified listed companies, especially listed companies in steel, metallurgy, or electric power sectors, to disclose the reports on social responsibility reports together with the annual reports of 2013. 　　If a listed company discloses its social responsibility report, its directorate should discuss the report separately and disclose the report on the SSE’s website in the form of separate reports. 　　5. Commitments 　　If a listed company’s shareholders, transaction counterparts, or other related parties have made commitments on the performance of the company or that of the injected assets in 2013, the directorate should pay attention to the fulfillment of the commitments. If the accounting firm issues the special examination opinion on it, the company should disclose the opinion together with the annual report on the SSE’s website. 　　If the performance of the company or that of relevant assets in 2013 fails to reach the level as promised, the company should separately discuss the spread between the actual profit and the promised amount, specify in details the spread and the measures already taken or to be taken by the company, and urge relevant shareholders, transaction counterparts, or other related parties to fulfill the commitments at the directorate meeting discussing and approving the 2013 annual report. 　　Listed companies should disclose the commitments made by themselves and their shareholders with shareholding proportion above 5% according to the requirements in the “Rules on Annual Reports”. If a listed company’s controlling shareholder fails to fulfill the commitment, the directorate should urge the controlling shareholder to make new commitments or propose compensation schemes after going through the necessary procedures. 　　6. Capital Occupation 　　If a listed company’s controlling shareholder and related parties occupy non-operating capital, the company should disclose the case in strict accordance with the requirements in the “Rules on Annual Reports”. 　　The certified public accountant should, according to the provisions in the “Notice of Some Issues on Regulating Fund Transfer Between Listed Companies and Related Parties and Outward Guarantee Provided by Listed Companies” (Zheng Jian Fa [2003] No. 56), issue the special examination opinion on capital occupation by the listed company’s controlling shareholder and other related parties, and the opinion should be disclosed on the SSE’s website. 　　7. Illegal Buying and Selling of Shares of Listed Companies 　　If a listed company’ directors, supervisors, senior managers, and shareholders with the shareholding of above 5% illegally buy and sell shares in the company, or other suspected illegal buying and selling of shares in the company occur and the company has disclosed that it will withdraw the illegal incomes during the reporting period, the listed company should disclose the time and the amount of withdrawing the illegal incomes by the board of directors in the “Significant Events” in the full text of the annual reports. 　　8. Accounting Policies Adjustment, Accounting Estimations Change, and Accounting Errors Modification 　　If a listed company has made changes to accounting policies and accounting estimations or made modifications to significant accounting errors during the reporting period, it should make explanation in its annual report according to the requirements of the “Rules on Annual Reports”. Besides, the listed company should submit to the SSE the written reports on the opinions made by the board of directors, the board of supervisors, and independent directors, as well as relevant remarks made by the accounting firm on the abovementioned changes and modifications. The remarks of the accounting firm should include the reasons for the abovementioned changes and modifications, the detailed accounting treatments, the affected amount for previous years’ financial positions and operating results (if concerning retroactive adjustments), and whether necessary communication has been conducted with the former accounting firm (in case of the change of the accounting firm). 　　If a listed company needs to make retroactive adjustments to the financial data of previous years in the 2013 annual report due to modifying significant accounting errors, it should disclose the modifications to significant accounting errors, the accountability measures and the treatment result of the board of directors towards relevant persons in charge, in the form of temporary announcement before or on the disclosure date of the 2013 annual reports according to the CSRC’s relevant regulations. 　　9. Audit Opinions 　　If a listed company is issued non-standard audit opinions (including qualified opinion, disclaimer of opinion, adverse opinion, and audit opinions with unqualified opinion on stressed issues or other issues) on the 2013 financial accounting report by the accounting firm, it should submit relevant documents to the SSE in accordance with the provisions in Chapter 6 of the “Listing Rules”. 　　If a listed company is issued disclaimer of opinion or adverse opinion on the 2013 financial reports by the accounting firm, it should disclose a risk alert announcement every half a month from the disclosure day of the 2013 annual report till the day when the involved issues are settled or the day when the semi-annual report of 2014 is disclosed. The risk alert announcement should specify companies’ latest operating situation and the progress of the involved issues. 　　10. Convertible Corporate Bonds 　　Listed companies issuing convertible corporate bonds should additionally disclose relevant contents in the 2013 annual reports according to the requirements in Chapter 6 of the “Listing Rules”. 　　11. Corporate Bonds 　　Listed companies that have issued corporate bonds and listed the bonds on the SSE should additionally disclose relevant content in the 2013 annual reports in accordance with the “SSE Corporate Bonds Listing Rules”. 　　If listed companies having issued corporate bonds and listed the bonds on the SSE predict that they are to suffer continuous loss in recent two years, they should release the risk alert announcement on possible listing suspending of corporate bonds before January 31, 2014 and disclose the risk alert announcement for at least two times before the disclosure of the 2013 annual reports. 　　12. Special Industries 　　Listed companies in special industries should also execute special regulations formulated by the CSRC for commercial banks, insurance companies, securities companies, and companies engaged in real estate development. 　　Listed companies engaged in real estate, petroleum and gas exploitation, coal mining and processing should also make information disclosure in line with the “No. 12 Work Memos of Listed Companies Work on Day-to-day Information Disclosure” and the guidance on information disclosure of relevant industries issued by the SSE. 　　(VII). Continuous Supervision 　　Listed companies under the continuous supervision of the sponsor institutions or financial advisers should, in accordance with relevant rules of the CSRC and the requirements of the “SSE Guidance for the Continuous Supervision Work on Listed Companies”, submit the sponsor institution’s report on continuous supervision or the financial advisers’ opinions on continuous supervision to the SSE in the prescribed period after the disclosure of the 2013 annual report, and disclose the abovementioned information on the SSE website. 　　(VIII). Debriefings of Independent Directors 　　In accordance with relevant work memos of the SSE, independent directors of listed companies should earnestly complete the work on annual debriefings and make summary and instruction on their duty performance in the year. The annual debriefings of independent directors should be disclosed separately on the SSE website at the same time when the relevant listed companies' annual reports are disclosed. 　　(IX). Audit Committees 　　Listed companies should separately disclose reports on their audit committees’ duty performance in the year, mainly including their fulfillment of duties and the convention of the audit committee meetings, on the SSE website at the same time when the listed companies' annual reports are disclosed, according to the “SSE Guidance on Operation of Audit Committees of Listed Companies’ Directorates”. 　　(X). Other Requirements 　　A listed company should complete the compiling of the annual report within two working days after the accounting firm issues the audit report, and submit the following documents to the SSE within two working days after the discussion and approval of the annual report by the board of directors: 　　1. Documents to be issued by the company 　　(1) The full text and abstract of the 2013 annual report signed by the incumbent legal representative of the company and sealed by the company; 　　(2) The announcement on directorate resolutions; 　　(3) The self-evaluation report on internal control (if applicable); 　　(4) The social responsibility report (if applicable); 　　(5) The directorate's special remarks on issues involved in the non-standard unqualified auditing opinions (if applicable); 　　(6) The directorate's special report on deposit and usage of funds raised in this year (if applicable); 　　(7) The directorate's remarks on change of accounting policies or estimations and modification of significant accounting errors (if applicable); 　　(8) The independent directors’ special remarks on the company’s outward guarantees; 　　(9) The independent directors’ opinions on issues involved in the non-standard unqualified auditing opinions (if applicable); 　　(10) The independent directors’ annual debriefings; 　　(11) The announcement on resolutions of the board of supervisors; 　　(12) The board of supervisors' opinion towards the directorate's special remarks on issues involved in the non-standard unqualified auditing opinions (if applicable); 　　(13) The board of supervisors' remarks on change of accounting policies or estimations and the modification of significant accounting errors (if applicable); 　　(14) The annual duty-fulfilling report of the audit committee; 　　(15) Other documents required by the CSRC and the SSE. 　　2. Documents to be submitted by the accounting firm 　　(1) The audited 2013 financial report of the company issued by the accounting firm; 　　(2) The special remarks of the accounting firm on capital occupation by the company’s controlling shareholder and its related parties; 　　(3) The special remarks issued by the accounting firm on issues involved in the non-standard unqualified auditing opinions (if applicable); 　　(4) The special examination report issued by the accounting firm on deposit and usage of the company's raised funds (if applicable); 　　(5) The remarks issued by the accounting firm on the changes of accounting policies or estimations and the modification of significant accounting errors (if applicable); 　　(6) The special examination report issued by the accounting firm on the realization of profit prediction in the significant assets reorganization (if applicable); 　　(7) The audit report issued by the accounting firm on the internal control of financial report (if applicable); 　　(8) Other documents required by the CSRC and the SSE. 　　3. The special verification and examination report issued by the sponsor institution on deposit and actual usage of the company's raised funds (if applicable). 　　4. Documents for Filing 　　(1) The directorate resolution, the written confirmation of the 2013 annual report signed by the company’s directors and senior managers, and the independent opinions signed by independent directors; 　　(2) The resolution of the board of supervisors and the written verification opinion on the 2013 annual report put forward by the board of supervisors in the form of its resolution; 　　(3) The XBRL instance documents of the 2013 annual report. 　　A listed company should file completely and correctly according to the requirements of relevant work memos of the SSE through the standard reporting system for listed companies’ information disclosure. The XBRL instance documents will be disclosed on the SSE website after being submitted by the relevant listed companies. The SSE will carry out aftermath verification on the XBRL instance documents and conduct assessment on the XBRL information collection filed by listed companies. 　　5. Submission Methods 　　Listed companies should submit the 2013 annual reports through the SSE company business management system according to the “No. 2 Memorandum for the Listed Companies’ Work on Day-to-day Information Disclosure: Guidance for the Information Disclosure Business”. 　　The SSE will implement aftermath examination on the 2013 annual reports of the listed companies. After receiving the examination opinions of the SSE, a listed company should provide timely written explanations on the issues involved, timely publish relevant supplementation and modification announcements in the designated newspapers and on the SSE website as required by the SSE, as well as disclose the full text of the modified 2013 annual report on the SSE website. 　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　December 31, 2013

Central Bank, CSRC Promote Cross-market Issuance, Trading of CDB Financial Bonds
30 Dec 2013
　　China Development Bank (CDB) issues the first batch of financial bonds with the amount of RMB12 billion on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) on December 27, which is a beneficial pilot of the Central Bank and the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) in deepening the reform and promoting the development and the interflow between on-floor and over-the-counter bond markets and has received full attention and positive response from market players. 　　After the 18th CPC National Congress put forward the goal of deepening the reform in an all-round way and the requirement of reforming the financial system, the State Council took the development of the bond market as an important measure to support the economic structural adjustment and the transformation and upgrading, decided to steadily expand the issuance of bonds, and promoted the interflow between on-floor and over-the-counter bond markets. CDB financial bonds were issued and traded only in the inter-bank market before, and the Central Bank and the CSRC have taken the promotion of the pilot cross-market issuance and trading of CDB financial bonds as one of the important contents for improving the bond market system. In the first half of this year, the two authorities decided to carry out pilot issuance on the SSE with the amount of RMB30 billion, specified the pilot issuance scheme, the listing and trading arrangement, and the coordination mechanism of regulation after studies for several times, and led CDB and the SSE to determine the pilot issuance measures and the business rules. In the reform of the cross-market issuance and trading of financial bonds, efforts have been made to form concerted efforts, stick to the piloting in advance, conduct steady promotion, and strengthen system design, so as to ensure the success of the pilot work. 　　The first batch of pilot issuance involves two kinds of products, the two-year bonds of RMB8 billion and the five-year bonds of RMB4 billion, both issued by tendering. A total of 47 members in the underwriting group, constituted by such financial institutions as commercial banks, insurance institutions, and securities companies, have carried out bidding through the SSE bond issuance system, and the bidding and tendering processes are fair and conforms to relevant rules. According to the tendering result, the coupon rate of the two-year bonds is 5.8% and that of the five-year bonds is 5.84%, both conforming to the market expectation and the current coupon rate level. The two kinds of products will be listed for trading on January 7, 2014. Market players have paid high attention to regulatory authorities’ measures on improving the bond market system and promoting the interflow, and actively participated in the cross-market issuance and trading of CDB financial bonds. The underwriters have actively participated in the bidding despite the financial strain and the high market interest rate at the end of the year, and other investors have presented their wills to subscribe and invest after the bond distribution and the bond listing for trading. 　　The successful pilot issuance of CDB financial bonds, which has reflected the deepening of the reform of bond issuance and trading by the Central Bank and the CSRC, will facilitate the free flow of financial assets. Besides, it marks an important step further towards the building of a unified and open bond market with orderly competition, gradually makes markets to play decisive roles in allocation of resources, and enables market players to gain many benefits. In terms of the issuer, as CDB raises funds mainly through bond issuance, it will further expand its issuance channels, make full use of all markets for financing, improve the assets and liability management, and better serve China’s economic and social development goals. With regard to the investors, the SSE bond market includes large numbers of individual investors in addition to institutional investors. According to relevant business rules, individual investors can invest in CDB financial bonds, which enjoys quasi sovereign credit, taxation advantage, and high net return on investment, as well as allows investors to share investment incomes and the results of the Reform and Opening-Up and the economic construction. Besides, for the trading place, the pilot issuance will help to improve the bond issuance and trading system, strengthen the interflow and the business coordination, propel the forming of a unified price and a unified yield rate curve on the bond market, consolidate the foundation for China’s interest rate liberalization, and boost the construction of the financial market system, thus serving the development of the real economy. 　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

Q&A on Revising, Abolishing Relevant Business Rules of SSE Delisted Share Transfer System
27 Dec 2013
　　On December 27, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) released the “Notice on Revising and Abolishing Relevant Business Rules of SSE Delisted Share Transfer System” and cancelled the Delisted Share Transfer System. From now on, the delisted shares in the Shanghai market shall be transferred to the National Equities Exchange and Quotations (the “New Third Board”) for listing and transferring. An official of the SSE answered the following questions in the interview. 　　Q1. What is the original intention of the SSE to set up the Delisted Share Transfer System in 2012? 　　Before the reform of the delisting system in 2012, delisted shares on the SSE were transferred to the Agency Share Transfer System (the “Old Third Board”). Judging from the previous practice, the transfer of delisted shares to the Old Third Board has involved many processes and operated not smoothly enough. In the reform of the delisting system in 2012, the SSE set up the Delisted Share Transfer System with an aim to perfect the delisted share transfer system, simplify the processes, optimize the procedures, bring convenience to small and medium-sized investors, and allow investors to transfer shares without changing the trading floor and their trading habits. 　　Q2. Why did the SSE cancel the Delisted Share Transfer System? 　　At present, the construction of China’s New Third Board has achieved positive effect and it has enjoyed steady and orderly operation. In 2013, delisted companies of the Old Third Board and the two companies delisted in that year have all transferred to the New Third Board for listing and transferring; the procedures of registration change of investors’ share accounts have been well arranged; and relevant work has become more convenient. Judging from the overall situation of the construction of a multi-level capital market, the conditions for a unified delisted share transfer system have been mature. 　　Considering the abovementioned situation, the SSE believed after research that unifying the delisted share transfer system and the regulation mechanism of delisted companies will help to provide system guarantee for the transformational development of delisted companies and safeguard rights and interests of investors. Therefore, as approved by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the SSE decided to revise relevant business rules and canceled the delisted share transfer system. From now on, the shares in delisted companies in the Shanghai market shall all be transferred to the New Third Board for listing and transferring. 　　Q3. Which rules have been revised in this revision? What is the major content? 　　The current revision mainly aimed at revising and abolishing the rules related to the delisted share transfer system. The “SSE Stock Listing Rules”, the “SSE Detailed Rules on Business in Delisting Arrangement Period”, and the “SSE Measures on Re-listing of Delisted Companies” have been revised, and the “SSE Provisional Regulations on Share Transfer on Delisted Share Transfer System” has been abolished. 　　The major content of this revision is to cancel the statement in the business rules that relates to the “Delisted Share Transfer System” and to maintain the rule that delisted companies can choose to transfer their shares to the “national over-the-counter market and other qualified regional over-the-counter markets”. Rules and provisions relating to the delisting rules have remained unchanged. 　　Q4. What is the follow-up arrangement of the SSE after this revision? 　　The revised rules shall come into effect as of the date the notice is released and relevant provisional rules shall be abolished at the same time. With regard to the follow-up work, the SSE will, in accordance with the delisting work responsibility assignment, specify the connecting work between the SSE market and the New Third Board, urge delisted companies on the Shanghai Market to transfer their shares to the New Third Board for listing and transferring according to the rules, and make sure that investors can successfully trade shares in the New Third Board. Next, the SSE will continue to stick to the unified arrangement of the CSRC, steadfastly implement the new delisting system, and actively carry out reform and innovation in practice, so as to promote the realization of the marketization, legalization, and normalization of the delisting system.

Notice on Revising, Abolishing Relevant Business Rules of SSE Delisted Share Transfer System
27 Dec 2013
　　To all market participants, 　　In order to further improve the delisting system and establish a unified listing and transfer place and a unified transfer system for shares in delisted companies, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has decided to cancel the Delisted Share Transfer System. From now on, shares in delisted companies shall be transferred to the national over-the-counter market and other qualified regional over-the-counter markets. And the SSE has revised three rules related to delisting, the “SSE Stock Listing Rules” (the “Listing Rules” for short), the “SSE Detailed Rules on Business in Delisting Arrangement Period” (the “Detailed Rules” for short), and the “SSE Measures on Re-listing of Delisted Companies” (the “Re-listing Measures” for short), and it has abolished the “SSE Provisional Regulations on Share Transfer on Delisted Share Transfer System”. Relevant information is as follows: 　　1. Article 14.3.28 of the “Listing Rules” has been revised into “After shares listing are terminated, a company should choose to apply for transferring the shares in it to the national over-the-counter market and other qualified regional over-the-counter markets. 　　A company transferring the shares in it to an over-the-counter market should engage a securities company qualified to conduct broker business (“agent institution” for short) and sign relevant agreement with the securities company. For those not engaging an agent institution or with no agent institution accepting their engagement, the SSE, after deciding to terminate shares listing, can temporarily designate an agent institution for them and tell the companies and relevant agent institutions to release relevant announcement on abovementioned matters within two trading days (except for companies without the qualification of a legal entity).” 　　2. Article 14.3.29 of the “Listing Rules” has been revised into “After shares listing are terminated, a company should arrange to transfer the shares in it to the over-the-counter markets immediately after the SSE’s decision of terminating shares listing and make sure that the shares can enter the over-the-counter markets for transfer within 45 trading days after the expiration of the delisting arrangement term.” 　　3. Article 5 of the “Detailed Rules” has been revised into “For listed companies that fail to fulfill relevant duties according to the “Listing Rules” and the “Detailed Rules”, the SSE will impose punishment on relevant persons in line with the “Listing Rules”, and it will not accept their re-listing applications within 36 months after the day when relevant shares enter the over-the-counter markets for transfer.” 　　4. Article 10 of the “Detailed Rules” has been revised into “A listed company with shares in it being delisted should choose to apply for transferring the shares to the national over-the-counter market or other qualified regional over-the-counter markets for shares transfer.” 　　5. Article 14 of the “Detailed Rules” has been revised into “A listed company should release an announcement on listing termination again on the expiration day of the delisting arrangement term and make detailed arrangements on specific matters of the delisted shares entering the over-the-counter market for transfer, including the name of the market that the shares plan to enter, the entering date, the shares re-affirmation, the registration, and the custody.” 　　6. Article 9 of the “Re-listing Measures” has been revised into “A delisted company can apply to the SSE for re-listing after the expiration of the first complete fiscal year as of the day when the delisted shares enter an over-the-counter market for transfer.” 　　7. Article 10 of the “Re-listing Measures” has been revised into “For a delisted company with the following circumstances, the SSE will not accept their re-listing applications within 36 months since the delisted shares enter an over-the-counter market for transfer: 　　1) It fails to fulfill the obligation of information disclosure and other relevant duties according to the SSE’s rules during the delisting arrangement term; 　　2) It fails to arrange the delisted shares to enter an over-the-counter market for transfer according to the SSE rules; 　　3) It fails to coordinate with the delisting work. 　　8. Article 30 of the “Re-listing Measures” has been revised into “No trading limit shall be imposed on shares on the first day of their re-listing. 　　The opening reference price on the first day of shares re-listing shall be the trading price on the last transfer day on the national over-the-counter market or other qualified regional over-the-counter markets. 　　A company that needs to adjust the abovementioned opening reference price should ask the re-listing sponsor to provide special examination opinions and demonstrate and announce the reasons to the public.” 　　9. Article 37 of the “Re-listing Measures” has been revised into “After applying for re-listing, a company should release major events on the SSE’s website according to the way specified by the SSE, apart from disclosing information in line with the rules of the relevant over-the-counter market.” 　　10. The “SSE Provisional Regulations on Share Transfer on Delisted Share Transfer System” has been abolished. 　　The abovementioned revising and abolishing matters have been approved by the SSE’s Board of Governors upon discussion and the China Securities Regulatory Commission. The revised rules are hereby released (see the attachments) and they shall come into effect as of December 28, 2013. 　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　December 27, 2013

Notice of Issuing “SSE Guidelines for Issuing and Listing Securities (Revised in 2013)”
27 Dec 2013
　　All market participants, 　　In order to standardize the business of issuing securities through the system of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and applying for listing on the SSE, the SSE has formulated the “SSE Guidelines for Issuing and Listing Securities (Revised in 2013)” which is hereby released and shall come into effect from the date of release. 　　The "SSE Guidelines for Issuing and Listing Securities" (Shang Zheng Fa Zi [2010] No. 30) issued by the SSE on November 9, 2010 shall be abolished at the same time.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　December 27, 2013

Notice of Issuing “SSE Detailed Rules on Securities Listing Examination”
27 Dec 2013
　　To all market participants, 　　In order to standardize the securities listing examination of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), the SSE has revised the “SSE Provisional Rules on Securities Listing Examination” and renamed it as the “SSE Detailed Rules on Securities Listing Examination”, which is hereby released and shall come into effect from the date of release. 　　The “SSE Provisional Rules on Securities Listing Examination” released by the SSE on August 6, 2009 shall be abolished at the same time.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　December 27, 2013

Notice of Releasing “Guidelines on Content and Format of Stock Listing Announcement (Revised in 2013)”
27 Dec 2013
　　To all issuers, sponsors, and other market participants, 　　In order to standardize the listing information disclosure of IPO companies and protect investors’ legal rights and interests, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has revised the “Guidelines on Content and Format of Stock Listing Announcement”, which is hereby released and shall come into effect from the date of release. 　　The “Guidelines on Content and Format of Stock Listing Announcement” released by the SSE on May 18, 2006 shall be abolished at the same time.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　December 27, 2013

CDB Approved to Issue Bonds on SSE, Substantive Progress Achieved in Interflow between On-floor, Over-the-counter Bond Markets
25 Dec 2013
　　As approved by the People’s Bank of China and the China Securities Regulatory Commission, China Development Bank (CDB) has recently piloted the issuance of policy-related financial bonds on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), with the first amount of RMB30 billion. On December 24, the SSE released the “Notice on Pilot Issuance and Trading of Financial Bonds by China Development Bank” and the “SSE Business Operation Guidance on Issuing Bonds by Tendering”, which marked the official start of CDB’s piloting the issuance of policy-related financial bonds on the SSE. After listed commercial banks entered the exchanged-based bond market in 2010, the interflow between on-floor and over-the-counter bond markets has further moved a substantive step. 　　In recent years, vigorously developing the bond market has become an important part of the capital market development. The Executive Meeting of the State Council held in June this year pointed out that efforts should be made on expanding the bond issuance and realizing the interflow between on-floor and over-the-counter bond markets; and the 3rd Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee (the “3rd Plenary Session” for short) put forward the idea of developing and standardizing the bond market and enhancing the proportion of direct financing. According to an official of the SSE, the pilot bond issuance of CDB on the SSE is an important measure of relevant competent authority to implement the requirements put forward at the Executive Meeting of the State Council and the “3rd Plenary Session” and to promote the interflow between on-floor and over-the-counter bond markets. At present, China’s bond market can be divided into the inter-bank bond market and the exchange-based bond market, and only treasury bonds and enterprise bonds can be issued and traded across the two markets. Before this pilot, the policy-related financial bonds can only be issued and traded at the inter-bank bond market. In order to promote the sound development of the bond market, according to the arrangement of the regulatory authorities, CDB, the SSE, and China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited (CSDC) formulated the scheme of pilot issuance of financial bonds on the SSE market, which was officially approved by relevant competent authority on December 13. 　　Relevant experts believed that the issuance of the CDB bonds on the SSE will exert positive influences on China’s bond market in the following aspects. First, CDB can make use of the SSE’s advantage of various investors to explore diversified issuance channels and enrich its investor groups; second, as CDB possesses the high credit rating of quasi sovereign credit, its bond issuance on the exchange-based market can satisfy the investing demands of small and medium-sized investors and increase residents’ property income; third, it will help to display the characteristics of transparency and efficiency of the SSE’s pricing mechanism, facilitate the improvement of the bond yield curve, and promote the progress of China’s interest rate liberalization; fourth, the pilot issuance of the CDB bonds will contribute to accumulating experience and laying a foundation for the cross-market issuance and trading of other policy-related financial bonds and various bonds products in the future. 　　Approved by the State Council, CDB was founded in March 1994. It specializes in carrying out the business line of middle and long-term credit loan and investment, and other financial business lines to serve the key middle and long-term development strategies of the national economy. According to the State Council’s scheme of founding CDB, CDB should take the issuance of financial bonds as its major financing method since its establishment, which has decided that the development of CDB is closely related to that of China’s bond market. At present, CDB is the largest issuer of policy-related financial bonds in China and also the first issuer engaging in issuing policy-related financial bonds. Besides, it is also the advocator and the practitioner of the market-oriented bond issuance in the country. 　　The CDB bonds possess the following features and advantages. First, they have complete varieties and high market liquidity. Till the end of November 2013, the balance of the CDB bonds is RMB5.67 trillion, taking up 20% of that in the inter-bank bond market. The CDB bonds are also one of the most brisk products in the inter-bank bond market. From January to November of 2013, the spot trading volume of the CDB bonds is RMB7.58 trillion, taking up 21% of that of the inter-bank bonds, and the CDB bond yield is one of the most important reference yields in the inter-bank bond market. Second, the CDB bonds have led the market innovation in this industry and witnessed the development innovation of the bonds. CDB has almost participated in all milestones in the development of China’s bond market. From the early floating-rate bonds and the alternative obligations, to the first credit-asset-backed securities and the first kind of domestic USD bonds in recent years, and to the recent “Fuwa Bonds” and F4 benchmark bonds, all these are key innovative products and mechanisms. Besides, CDB is also very active in the international bond market. It launched the Samurai bonds, the Yankee bonds, the global USD bonds, and the global Euro bonds successively in 1996. In 2007, CDB was the first financial institution in China’s mainland to issue RMB bonds in Hong Kong, and it had had the accumulative issuance amount of RMB23.5 billion, making it the financial institution from China’s mainland with the largest scale, the most complete products, and the most innovations of RMB bonds issuance in Hong Kong. Third, CDB has the quasi sovereign credit and the credit rating for CDB made by the international rating institutions is linked up with China’s sovereign rating. As approved by the State Council and the China Banking Regulatory Commission, the risk weight of financial bonds issued by CDB by the end of 2015 is 0% till the maturity date of the bonds, and these financial bonds will be dealt with in the same way as the policy-related financial bonds, indicating the further reinforcement of the position of the CDB bonds as the bond product with the quasi sovereign credit. Relevant laws and regulations stipulate that the interests obtained by individuals through purchasing treasury bonds and the financial bonds approved to be issued by the State Council can be exempt from individual income tax in accordance with relevant rules. 　　It is learnt that CDB plans to issue the first batch of fixed rate bonds with the amount of no less than RMB10 billion in the near future, including the two-year bonds and the five-year bonds, to all institutional investors and individual investors on the SSE. The bonds will be issued by tendering and the underwriting group will be constituted by 47 financial institutions, including 15 listed commercial banks, 3 insurance companies, and 29 securities companies. Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, Agricultural Bank of China, China Construction Bank, Bank of Communications, CITIC Securities, and Orient Securities will be the lead underwriters. After tendering, the bonds will be distributed offline by the underwriters and then be listed on the SSE. 　　An official of the SSE introduced that the issuance and listing system of the CDB bonds is the same with that of the treasury bonds. First, the CDB bonds will adopt the public offering method on the SSE and be issued by tendering through organizing the underwriting group. CDB can arrange some bonds to be issued to public investors according to market demands. The issued bonds should be registered for custody at Shanghai Branch of CSDC. Second, the CDB bonds are listed and traded in the SSE trading system and investors of all kinds on the SSE bond market can trade in the secondary market. Third, the CDB bonds can be regarded as the pledged bonds for the collateralized repo of the exchange and the discount coefficient of standard bonds is the same with that of treasury bonds. Besides, the SSE and CSDC have paid high attention to CDB’s bond issuance on the SSE and set up a special work group to formulate special business rules and procedures according to CDB’s issuance demands, and they have arranged the CDB bonds to be listed for trading on the day after the issuance payment is made. In addition, they have improved the functions of the SSE bond tendering system, so as to provide technical support for the issuance of the CDB bonds by tendering. The tendering system, which supports the tendering and distribution business lines of bonds, can arrange the tendering of the bonds with different phases at the same time. The tendering styles include the American style and the Dutch style. From now on, bonds of all kinds on the SSE market can be issued by tendering through this system. Next, the SSE will join hands with other market institutions to do well in terms of product innovation and secondary market trading of the CDB bonds. 　　The 3rd Plenary Session pointed out that “Building an open and unified market system with orderly competition is the basis for markets to play decisive roles in allocation of resources” and “Efforts should be made on speeding up the forming of a modern market system in which enterprises enjoy independent operation and fair competition, consumers can choose freely and consume autonomously, and commodities and production factors can flow freely and be exchanged equally, and on removing market barriers”. It is believed that CDB’s pilot bond issuance on the SSE will help to accelerate the progress of the interflow between on-floor and over-the-counter markets and the paces of the bond market’s innovation, and that China’s bond market will undoubtedly embrace new development situation and opportunities. 　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Holiday Schedule for 2014
25 Dec 2013
　　All member units,   　　The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the holiday schedule for 2014 according to the “Notice of Arrangements for Market Closure for Public Holidays in 2014” from the China Securities Regulatory Commission (No. [2013] 105 by CSRC): 　　I. Arrangements for market closure 　　1. New Year’s Day: The Exchange will close on January 1 (Wednesday) and open for trading on January 2 (Thursday). 　　2. Spring Festival: The Exchange will close from January 31 (Friday) to February 6 (Thursday) and open for trading on February 7 (Friday). It will also close on the weekend on January 26 (Sunday) and February 8 (Saturday). 　　3. Tomb Sweeping Day: The Exchange will close on April 7 (Monday) and open for trading on April 8 (Tuesday). 　　4. Labor Day: The Exchange will close from May 1 (Thursday) to May 3 (Saturday) and open for trading on May 5 (Monday). It will also close on the weekend on May 4 (Sunday). 　　5. Dragon Boat Festival: The Exchange will close on June 2 (Monday) and open for trading on June 3 (Tuesday). 　　6. Mid-Autumn Festival: The Exchange will close on September 8 (Monday) and open for trading on September 9 (Tuesday) 　　7. National Day: The Exchange will close from October 1 (Wednesday) to October 7 (Tuesday) and open for trading on October 8 (Wednesday). It will also close on the weekends on September 28 (Sunday) and October 11 (Saturday). 　　II. Issues related to clearing are carried out according to the arrangements of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. 　　III. Issues about testing in the Spring Festival and the National Day are subject to further notice.   　　Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　December 25, 2013

Fueling Investor Relation Management, Cementing Protection of Small, Medium-sized Investors
23 Dec 2013
　　Review One of the SSE’s “I’m a Shareholder” Activities in 2013 　　 　　Since the beginning of 2013, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has joined hands with mainstream media to carry out the series activities of “I’m a shareholder: small and medium-sized investors’ visits to listed companies”, in order to further guide and standardize the investor relation management of listed companies, protect the legitimate rights and interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors, foster investors’ awareness of being shareholders, improve their initiative in exercising shareholders’ rights, and advocate the concepts of rational investment and value investing. Online voting, registration, and question solicitation were organized in the activities for individual investors. The activities attempted to establish and perfect the face-to-face communication mechanism between investors and such executives as the board chairmen and general managers of listed companies, with an aim of listening to investors and reflecting their wills, and ensuring the implementation of the concept of serving small and medium-sized investors. 　　Since its launching on March 13, the “I’m a shareholder” activities have extended to major places of China and received the enthusiastic participation and positive comments from all market participants, such as small and medium-sized investors, listed companies, member companies, and media. Till the end of November, the activities have covered 18 listed companies including Shanghai Pudong Development Bank, Kunming Pharmaceutical Corporation, China Minsheng Banking Corporation Ltd., Kweichow Moutai Co., Ltd., Beijing Tong Ren Tang Co., Ltd., Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-earth (Group) Hi-tech Co., Ltd., Henan Rebecca Hair Products Co., Ltd., Tsingtao Brewery Co., Ltd., Haitong Securities Co., Ltd., Wanhua Chemical Group Co., Ltd., Yinzuo Group Co., Ltd., Guangzhou Baiyunshan Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Hisense Electric Co., Ltd., SANY Heavy Industry Co., Ltd., Zhengzhou Yutong Bus Co., Ltd., Beijing Capital Co., Ltd., China Railway Tielong Container Logistics Co., Ltd., and Shanghai International Port (Group) Co., Ltd. Altogether 1.68 million pieces of real-name votes have been received from investors, and nearly 1,000 investors and media persons have participated in on-site investigations on listed companies. According to the satisfaction survey after the activities, the satisfaction degrees of listed companies and media, small and medium-sized investors, online anonymous investors, and member units have exceeded 95%, 98%, 90%, 95%, respectively. 　　1. Highlighting the connotation of the activities and manifesting shareholders’ rights 　　In order to better popularize the law knowledge of the securities market and promote investors to understand their rights as shareholders, the SSE has specially designed and made the official website, the logo, the brochure, the poster, the T-shirt, and the handbag for the activities and conducted an in-depth excavation of the activities’ cultural connotation of protecting investors’ rights and interests. Just as the logo presents, a palm means that shareholders lift their hands to actively exercise rights; the provisions about shareholders’ rights in the “Securities Law” and the “Company Law” printed on the logo’s pedestal showed that shareholders’ rights are endowed by laws, and we shall abide by laws; the slight larger size of the palm than the book shows that “laws alone are not enough”, and only the exercising of rights by laws can make law provisions root; and the crystal logo symbolizes that the SSE and all market participants will jointly pursue the promptness and transparency of information disclosure, and safeguard the open, fair, and just market order. 　　Thanks to the concerted efforts of investors and member units, the theme song with the same name of the activities has also been released. The song has tactfully combined shareholders’ rights and the activities, presented a shareholder image with knowledge, risk cognitive ability, risk tolerance, and rationality, and deepened the spiritual connotation of the activities. “Love reading research reports, and love researching and tracking more; on entering listed companies, embrace face-to-face communication; to exercise shareholders’ rights, we are acting now.” the lyric just tells the wishes of small and medium-sized shareholders. 　　2. Conducting general election to listening to the wishes of small and medium-sized investors 　　The online voting, registration, and question solicitation of the “I’m a shareholder” activities have been carried out for individual investors. It is the first practice in the industry that generates the listed companies to be investigated and visited through small and medium-sized investors’ real-name voting, which has totally proceeded from investors and aimed at listening to the opinions of investors and reflecting their will. 　　With the promotion and cooperation of securities companies, nearly 1.7 million votes have been received in the five-season online general elections of this year, with the number of votes in each season of 32,276, 105,667, 99,477, 447,008, and 991,197 respectively. The number of votes in the fifth season is larger than the total of the first four seasons, which has reflected the increasingly higher enthusiasm of investors in participating in voting. Till the end of November, the click rate of the activities’ homepage has reached 40.13 million. 　　3. Expanding the activities’ influence through widespread media publicity 　　The “I’m a shareholder” activities have attracted wide attention of the media since its launching. Relevant media have reflected the information of every visit and investigation, the interesting sidelights, the excellent remarks, the interviews, and the Q&A on hot spots to the investors timely and dynamically. The all-round, multi-dimensional, and innovative reports on the “I’m a shareholder” activities through various media have expanded the publicity of investor protection. 　　For example, the over ten terms of the special program “I’m a shareholder” launched by the CCTV Financial Channel have really proceeded from the investors and earnestly implemented the aim of the educational activities on the Party’s mass line; the five platforms of the China Business Network have followed the latest news of the activities “I’m a shareholder” and made in-depth comments; the three major securities newspapers (the China Securities Journal, the Shanghai Securities News, and the Securities Times) and the Economic Information Daily of the Xinhua News Agency have either set up a special column or made full-page report; sina.com, qq.com, and people.com.cn have launched the column “SSE Release” and xueqiu.com has carried out a webcast of pictures and messages; and the four major platforms of the SSE’s official micro-blog have released 472 pieces of micro-blogs during the 18 sessions of the “I’m a shareholder” activities. With regard to the platform of qq.com, the micro-blogs have been viewed for over 2 million times, that is, nearly 20,000 times for each micro-blog on average. It is learnt from the feedbacks of all market participants that the reports related to the “I’m a shareholder” activities have gained widespread popularity by the investors and can help investors better know about their rights and interests. 　　4. Focusing on actual effects to promote the investor relation management of listed companies 　　These series activities aim at optimizing investor relation management and protecting shareholders’ rights and interests, and whether actual effects can be achieved is the important indicator of the success of these activities. During the visits to the 18 listed companies, the board chairmen, general managers, and other executives of these listed companies have paid high attention to and well organized the activities and carefully answered the questions raised by every shareholder. Zhu Yuchen, President of Shanghai Pudong Development Bank, expressed the goal of “Doing a good job for the 400,000 shareholders”; China Minsheng Banking Corporation Ltd. put up the slogan “Our shareholders, welcome home!” at the site of the activity; Zheng Youquan, Board Chairman of Rebecca Hair Products Co., Ltd., accompanied the investors all the way to visit the wig production line; Kou Guangwu, Vice General Manager and Secretary to Directorate of Wanhua Chemical Group, introduced the company’s exhibition hall and explained the industry park planning despite the high temperature of over 40℃; Tielong Container Logistics led all investors to take the high-speed rail and visit the branch line of the Shaba Railway and the facilities of the North Station of the Bayuquan Area. All these have shown the listed companies’ efforts on optimizing the investor relation management and promoting the protection of investors’ rights and interests. 　　The 18 listed companies being visited and investigated have all shown 100% degree of recognition for the viewpoint that the activities above can facilitate the communication between small and medium-sized investors and listed companies, promote listed companies to pay more attention to the investor relation management, and call out small and medium-sized investors’ awareness of being shareholders, and they all hoped that the “I’m a shareholder” activities would come again. Besides, some listed companies that have not been visited wished that the “I’m a shareholder” activities can take the investors to visit their companies, and test and enhance the level of their investor relation management. Meanwhile, the SSE has summarized some good practices in investor relation management according to the visits to the 18 listed companies, and it is now compiling the Collected Case Studies of Listed Companies’ Investor Relation Management in 2013 for the study and reference of all market participants, in a bid to extend the actual effects and the value of the series activities “I’m a shareholder”. 　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

Notice of Issuing “SSE Guidance on Operation of Audit Committee of Listed Company’s Directorate”
19 Dec 2013
　　All listed companies, 　　The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the “SSE Guidance on Operation of Audit Committee of Listed Company’s Directorate” (the “Guidance” for short, attached below), in order to boost the corporate governance and rationalize the operation of audit committees of directorates in listed companies. The “Guidance” is hereby released and put into effect as of the release day, and all listed companies are required to abide by it. 　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　December 19, 2013

SSE Q&A on Offline Issuance Business of IPO-related Shares on Shanghai Market
19 Dec 2013
　　On December 13, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited (CSDC) jointly released the “Measures on Offline Issuance of IPO-related Shares on Shanghai Market” (the “Measures” for short). An official of the SSE answered the following questions concerning the “Measures”. 　　Q1. What are the differences in the processes of investors’ participating in offline new shares issuance compared with those before the reform? How should offline investors apply and file relevant documents? 　　This reform has ushered in the independent allotment mechanism of lead underwriter. According to Article 7 of the “Administration Measures on Securities Issuance and Underwriting”, “In the initial public offering of shares, an issuer and relevant lead underwriter can negotiate and decide the conditions of investors participating in offline price inquiry, the requirements for valid quotes, the allotment principles, and the allotment methods, and choose the shares allotment objects among the offline investors with valid subscription in accordance with the decided allotment principles”. Besides, Article 8 further specifies that investors participating in offline quotes and subscription of IPO-related shares should be the subjects who are able to engage in stock investment according to laws. … An issuer and relevant lead underwriter can put forward specific requirements on offline investors’ qualification, research ability, and risk tolerance, and release these requirements in advance in an announcement. 　　Accordingly, the “Measures” specifies that offline investors should apply to relevant lead underwriter for participating in offline issuance according to the quoting requirements as announced by the lead underwriter in advance, and complete the registration and filing at the lead underwriter. The lead underwriter should examine and verify the offline investors’ qualification, assume the responsibility of disclosing relevant information, and provide the information of the offline investors that plan to participate in this offline issuance to the relevant subscription platform. 　　In practical operation, offline investors that plan to participate in the offline issuance of a certain kind of new shares should apply for and obtain the CA certificate issued by the SSE’s offline issuance subscription platform (the “Platform” for short) in advance (Those having got the certificate should not apply again), inform the lead underwriter of their participating intention, make sure from the leader underwriter whether they meet the quoting requirements as announced by the issuer and the lead underwriter before the deadline of preliminary price inquiry, and put on record at the lead underwriter the relevant information about the offline investors and the allotment objects that plan to participate in quoting. 　　Q2. How to apply for CA certificate? 　　As the Securities Association of China will no longer accept and deal with price inquirers’ filing applications after the reform, investors planning to participate in the offline issuance of new shares should apply to the lead underwriter that plans to participate in the issuance for filing relevant documents. Offline investors that need to newly apply for the CA certificate to log on the SSE’s offline subscription platform should commission the underwriter to handle the application. For the detailed procedures, please see the “Notice on Adjusting Procedures of Applying for the User’s Certificate of the SSE IPO Offline Subscription Platform” released in the column of “Electronization of Offline Issuance” of the SSE’s website. 　　The users that have obtained the CA certificate of the previous price inquiry object before August of 2013 can use that certificate and the corresponding trader codes to log in the system and should not apply for the CA certificate again. Those whose certificates have been lost or damaged should first change the log-in username in line with the procedures as specified in the “Instruction on Procedures” and apply to SSE InfoNet Ltd. for the certificate through the relevant lead underwriters that plans to participate in the offline issuance. 　　CA certificate can be repeatedly used in offline issuances. 　　Q3. What are the issuing methods for offline issuance? 　　On the Shanghai market, if the initial public issuance adopts the method of price inquiry, an issuer and relevant lead underwriter can first decide the issue price range after initial price inquiry and then decide the issue price through accumulative bidding price inquiry and allot shares to the objects participating in accumulative bidding price inquiry, or they can decide the issue price through initial price inquiry and then allot shares to the objects participating in subscription. 　　Q4. What are the differences in the process of lead underwriter’s operating the subscription platform compared with that before the reform? 　　With regard to the uploading of investor’s information documents, as an issuer and relevant lead underwriter make quoting requirements for offline investors, the lead underwriter should upload to the “Platform” the information of qualified offline investors in the set pattern before the starting of initial price inquiry. During initial price inquiry, the lead underwriter can add the information documents of offline investors and the allotment objects managed by them, and revise other information documents of the allotment objects apart from their accounts. The format of these data has been released in the column of “Electronization of Offline Issuance” of the SSE’s official website. 　　In terms of the launching of this issuance, the lead underwriter should also, in accordance with the requirements of the automated management of the offline issuance system, type in and submit the stock code, the issuer name, and other data related to the initial price inquiry through the “Platform” before 10:00 on the day before the day when the initial price inquiry is launched. This offline issuance will be launched after the affirmation of these data has been completed. 　　Over the matter of excluding invalid quotation and the corresponding planned subscription quantity, after the closing of initial price inquiry, a lead underwriter should, in line with the rules of the “Administration Measures on Securities Issuance and Underwriting” and the valid quoting requirements decided and released by the relevant issuer and the underwriter in advance, exclude the initial price inquiry and quotes that should not participate in subscription and the corresponding planned subscription quantity, such as excluding the part with the highest quote in the total planned subscription quantity, or excluding the quotes of people related to the issuer and the lead underwriter. 　　With regard to the launching of subscription process, the lead underwriter should type in and submit the decided share issuance price range (or the issuance price) and other subscription data through the “Platform” and complete the affirmation of relevant data before 16:30 on the day before the day when the subscription is launched. 　　Q5. What are the specific procedures of the lead underwriter excluding the part with the highest quote among the total planned subscription quantity through the SSE’s subscription platform? 　　After the closing of initial price inquiry, the “Platform” will present to the lead underwriter the record of each quote of each allotment object, and the lead underwriter can exclude the planned subscription price with the highest quote and the corresponding planned subscription quantity one by one. For the following two exceptional cases, the “Platform” can provide the specific handling methods: 1) if there is only one allotment object with one highest quote and the planned subscription quantity of this quote exceeds 10% of the total planned subscription quantity of all offline investors, the relevant lead underwriter can only exclude this quote; 2) if there are several allotment objects with several highest quotes of the same price and the planned subscription quantity of these quotes exceeds 10% of the total planned subscription quantity of all offline investors, the lead underwriter can exclude them one by one according to the excluding principles announced in advance. For example, the lead underwriter can first exclude a certain highest quotation of one allotment object and the corresponding planned subscription quantity according to the agreed principles of time preference or subscription quantity preference, and the total excluded amount should be no less than 10% of the total planned subscription quantity of all offline investors. 　　Q6. What are the differences in the quoting process of offline investors during initial price inquiry compared with that before the reform? 　　There is no obvious change in the quoting process during the initial price inquiry. Investors can engage in quoting as usual as long as they meet the quoting requirements released by the relevant underwriter and the underwriter has uploaded the investors’ information to the “Platform”. That is to say, offline investors can fill in and submit several planned subscription prices for each allotment object under their management and each planned subscription price should correspond to a planned subscription quantity. Having type in the quote records of all allotment objects that plan to participate in quoting, the offline investors should submit all the information at one time. Offline investors can submit the quote records for several times, and the last submission of all quote records will be regarded as the final result. 　　Q7. What are the differences in accumulative bidding price inquiry, quoting, and subscription of offline investors compared with those before the reform? 　　If the quote made by the offline investors for their allotment objects during the initial price inquiry is lower than the issuance price or the lower limit of the issuance price range decided by the issuer and the lead underwriter, the quote should be regarded as invalid and the corresponding planned subscription quantity should not be included in the subscription and allotment limits of the allotment objects during the subscription stage. Besides, it has been added in the reform that the planned subscription quantity with the highest quote that has been excluded by the lead underwriter after the closing of initial price inquiry shall not be counted into the subscription and allotment limits. 　　The specific process during the subscription stage remains the same as before. That is, offline investors should submit in a lump the subscription records that they have typed in for all their allotment objects participating in subscription, and the records cannot be canceled or revised after submission. The total number of the shares subscribed for in several subscription records of each allotment object’s securities account should be no less than the total number of the “planned subscription quantity” corresponding to the valid quote in the initial price inquiry, no more than the upper limit of the subscription quantity for each allotment object specified by the lead underwriter, and no more than the total number of issued shares offline. 　　Q8. What are the offline share allotment methods of the lead underwriter? 　　According to the independent allotment principle of lead underwriter as specified in this reform, the SSE’s offline issuance subscription platform allows the lead underwriter to engage in independent allotment after downloading all subscription records and to upload the allotment result data to the “Platform” within the specific time. Meanwhile, in order to meet the demands of the lead underwriter’s independent allotment, the “Platform” has also provided the function of numbering the valid subscription records. The lead underwriter therefore can complete the numbering of a certain subscription unit in the system and carry out drawing for allotment accordingly. 　　Q9. Can the status of subscription capital and the allotment result be looked up in the subscription platform? 　　The functions of the “Platform” have been improved recently. Offline investors can look up the status of the subscription capital of their managed allotment objects through the “Platform” on the day after the subscription day. On the T+2 day, they can look up the allotment result of this issuance uploaded by the lead underwriter through the “Platform”. 　　Off line investors should log in the CSDC’s PROP Integrated Service Terminal to look up the real-time status of the subscription capital.

Q&A on Online Subscription Business of IPO-related Shares on Shanghai Market
19 Dec 2013
On December 13, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited (CSDC) jointly released the “Measures on Online Subscribing for IPO-related Shares according to Market Capitalization on Shanghai Market” (the “Measures” for short). An official of the SSE answered the following questions concerning the “Measures”. 　　 Q1. What are the major differences between the subscription according to market capitalization and the subscription according to capital? 　　　　 A1. The subscription according to capital mainly considers an investor’s capital amount. Within the maximum subscription limit, an investor can subscribe as long as he/she has sufficient capital amount. 　　 However, the subscription according to market capitalization means that only an investor holding market capitalization of at least RMB10,000 can participate in subscription; the investor’s subscription quantity should not exceed the maximum subscription limit as specified by relevant lead underwriter and the subscription limit corresponding to the market capitalization amount held by the investor (please refer to Q6 for relevant calculating method). Besides, the investor must have sufficient capital in his or her account when subscribing. 　　 Q2. What are the major differences between the subscription according to market capitalization and the previous allotment according to market capitalization? 　　　 A2. The subscription according to market capitalization (the “New Method” for short) requires that market capitalization should be counted according to different markets, new shares should be subscribed for according to different accounts, and subscription can be carried out only with sufficient capital; however, the allotment according to market capitalization (the “Old Method” for short) stipulates that market capitalization should be combined for settlement, an account can subscribe on different markets, and capital should be paid after lot-winning. The detailed explanation is as follows: 　　   　　 Difference 　　 The New Method 　　 The Old Method 　　 Whether the market capitalization amounts of the Shanghai and Shenzhen markets are combined 　　 An investor’s market capitalization amounts on the two markets are not combined, and the market capitalization amount on one market can only be used to calculate the limit of subscribing for new shares on this market. 　　 The market capitalization amounts on the two markets are combined, and the total can be used to subscribe for new shares on any of the two markets. 　　 Whether cross-market subscription is allowed 　　 A securities account of the Shanghai and Shenzhen markets can only subscribe for news shares of their own market. 　　 Cross-market subscription is allowed. 　　 Time to deposit capital 　　 Enough subscription capital is deposited before subscription. 　　 Subscription capital is paid after successful subscription. 　　   　　   Q3. What is the market capitalization held by an investor? 　　 A3. The market capitalization held by an investor refers to the market value of A shares without sales limit held by the investor on this market at the end of the T-2 day (T day is the subscription day, the same below), and the market value of the A shares without sales limit resulted from IPO will not be counted if they have no closing price. If A shares without sales limit are under judicial freezing and pledge, or the trading of directors, supervisors, and senior managers of a listed company is restricted, the calculating of market capitalization will not be influenced. 　　　 Q4. What is the calculating method for market capitalization?   A4. 1) The market capitalization held by an investor’s securities account is calculated by multiplying the number of A shares without sales limit in the securities account on the T-2 day and the corresponding closing price. 　　 2) The market capitalization amounts of one investor’s several securities accounts is combined as the total market capitalization amount held by the investor. 　　　　 Q5. Which securities accounts of an investor will be selected for combining all market capitalization amounts as the total market capitalization amount held by the investor? 　　 A5. 1) Unless otherwise specified, if the securities accounts with the same “account holder’s name” and “valid identification document number” in the registration document are held by one investor upon confirmation, the market capitalization amounts of all the securities accounts will be combined as the total market capitalization amount held by the investor. 　　　 2) The market capitalization amount on the credit securities account held by a client of margin trading and securities lending will be combined into the market capitalization amount held by the investor. 　　　　 3) The market capitalization amount on the refinancing-guarantee-related securities account of a securities company will be combined into the market capitalization amount held by the securities company. 　　　　 4) If the targeted assets management account of a securities company’s client and the enterprise annuity account of the securities company have the same account holder’s name and valid identification document number in the registration document, the market capitalization amount will be counted separately according to different securities accounts to participate in subscription. 　　 5) The market capitalization amounts of unqualified, dormant, and write-off securities accounts should not be counted. 　　 Q6. What is the calculating method of an investor’s online subscription limit? 　　 A6. After the market capitalization held by an investor is counted, those holding the market capitalization of above RMB10,000 (inclusive) can subscribe for new shares. An investors’ subscription limit will be calculated in the principle that every market capitalization of RMB10,000 on the Shanghai market will be matched with one subscription unit (one unit: 1,000 shares), and the market capitalization less than RMB10,000 will not be calculated for the subscription limit. 　　 If several stocks are issued on the same day, the subscription limit above applies to every stock which investors attempt to subscribe for. 　　　　 Q7. How to understand the subscription limit? Does it mean that the subscription limit is the quantity that an investor can subscribe for as long as he/she has sufficient capital? 　　 A7. The subscription limit not only refers to a quantity but also represents a qualification and possibility. It is the maximum quantity that an investor can subscribe for while meeting other specifications. In the case that the capital is sufficient, the final quantity that an investor can subscribe for is also affected by the upper limit of subscription, the lot-winning rate, and other factors. In this sense, the subscription limit is not equal to the successful subscription quantity; and generally, the former is larger than the latter. 　　　　 Q8. What factors will affect an investor’s online subscription quantity? 　　 A8. An investor’s online subscription quantity will not exceed the subscription limit calculated according to the market capitalization held by he/she on the T-2 day and not exceed the upper limit of subscription as specified by the lead underwriter (This upper limit cannot exceed 0.1% of the number of the initially issued shares online) with all the capital paid. If the investor’s subscription amount violates the above rule, the SSE and CSDC will regard the exceeded part as invalid. 　　 　　 Q9. How and when can an investor inquire his/her own market capitalization amount and subscription limit? 　　 A9. On the Shanghai market, an investor can inquire his/her market capitalization and his/her subscription limit rounded off by the minimum subscription unit through the designated trading securities company on the T day. 　　 　　 Q10. What are the influences of the subscription according to market capitalization on the time duration of online issuance business processes? 　　 A10. Such business processes as capital freezing, number matching, lot drawing, capital unfreezing, and shares registration after subscription on the Shanghai market will be in line with the “Measures (Draft) on Capital Subscription of Online Shares Issuance on Shanghai Market” released on the Shanghai market in 2009. Therefore, the adoption of the subscription according to market capitalization will exert no influence on the time duration of online issuance business processes. 　　 Q11. Will the market capitalization amounts of the ETFs, closed-end funds, B shares, bonds, and preferred shares to be held by an investor be included in the market capitalization held by him/her for subscribing for new shares on the Shanghai market? 　　 A11. The “Measures” stipulates that the “Market Capitalization” refers to the market capitalization of the A shares without sales limit held by an investor on the Shanghai market. Therefore, the market capitalization amounts of the ETFs, closed-end funds, B shares, bonds, and preferred shares to be held by the investor will not be included in the market capitalization held by him/her for subscribing for new shares on the Shanghai market. 　　 Q12. Can an investor sell on the T-1 day all the market capitalization held by him/her on T-2 day, and then subscribe on T day? 　　 A12. Yes, they can. 　　　 Q13. Can a credit account of margin trading and securities lending directly subscribe for new shares? 　　 A13. According to the Article 4 of the “Measures”, the market capitalization amount on the credit securities account held by a client of margin trading and securities lending should be combined into the market capitalization amount held by the investor… But this account cannot be used for subscribing for new shares. 　　   　　   　　   　　  

SSE Makes All-round Amendments to “SSE Guidance for Real-time Supervision on Abnormal Trading of Securities”
18 Dec 2013
　　The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) issues the “SSE Detailed Rules on Real-time Supervision on Abnormal Trading of Securities” (the “Detailed Rules” for short) on December 17. It is learnt that the “Detailed Rules” is regarded as the SSE’s all-round amendments to the “SSE Guidance for Real-time Supervision on Abnormal Trading of Securities” (the “Guidance” for short) released by it on May 14, 2008.   　　According to an official of the SSE, in over 5 years since release of the “Guidance”, the SSE has successively issued some supplementary rules to strengthen the regulation on trading at preliminary stage of new shares listing, the regulation on shares trading on the risk alert board, and others. Besides, new illegal securities trading behaviors have emerged one after another over recent years, which requires urgent improvement of the existing rules on market supervision. As a result, the SSE has formulated the “Detailed Rules” on the basis of the “Guidance”, so as to meet the need of market development, as well as sort out and integrate businesses rules on time.   　　Compared with the “Guidance”, the “Detailed Rules” recently released has changed contents mainly in the following 3 aspects: 　　First, the rule of in-session temporary trading suspension for bonds trading is added. Presently, the SSE has not yet set any price limit for bonds trading, as some bonds lack liquidity, abnormal fluctuations of prices in bonds trading are frequent, which could lead to dramatic fluctuations in bond indices. Regarding this situation, a rule of the SSE taking the measure of "In-session Temporary Trading Suspension" was added to the “Detailed Rules” in case of abnormal fluctuations of prices in bonds trading.   　　Second, the “Detailed Rules” has integrated contents related to the regulation on abnormal securities trading in the existing business rules. They include:   　　1. The rule about in-session temporary trading suspension has been added. In addition to supplementing the rule on in-session temporary trading suspension for bonds trading, the “Detailed Rules” has added the regulation on in-session temporary trading suspension of shares without price limit (including new shares, shares in additional issuance, shares whose listing is resumed, and shares on the first day when they are relisted), the regulation on in-session temporary trading suspension of shares with price limit and risk alert, and others.   　　2. The measure of self-disciplinary regulation has been supplemented. With an aim to strengthen the regulation on trading at preliminary stage of new shares listing, on December 13, 2013, the SSE issued the "Notice on Further Strengthening Regulation on Trading at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing", in which the regulatory measure of in-session temporary trading suspension of the securities account on the very day was added. The amendments this time have integrated this measure and some regulatory measures prescribed in other business rules.   　　3. Trading suspension of shares for examination has been added. As speculation on theme-related shares has been a particular problem in the regulation, trading suspension is imposed on listed companies for examination. It is specified in the amendments this time that if trading limit of the shares with price limit in a certain period dramatically strays from trading limit of the comparable index in the same period and relevant listed company does not make an announcement on significant issue, the SSE could require the listed company to suspend shares trading for examination while the listed company should examine its information disclosure, relevant market rumors, and others, and announce on time the result of the examination to the market.   　　Third, regulations on abnormal securities trading are perfected. With more use of information technologies (such as program trading) in the securities industry in recent years, new illegal securities transactions have appeared. Lacking pertinent regulations, the existing business rules need to be supplemented. Besides, as there are some overlapping problems in the regulations on abnormal securities trading behaviors mentioned in the existing business rules, relevant articles have been integrated and rationalized in the amendments this time to reinforce explicitness and uniformity of the business rules.   　　The official of the SSE says that the SSE will implement the “Detailed Rules”, monitor over all kinds of abnormal trading behaviors, and crack down on illegal behaviors, in a bid to build an open and fair securities market and protect interests of investors.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Issuing “SSE Detailed Rules on Real-time Supervision on Abnormal Trading of Securities”
17 Dec 2013
　　To all market participants,   　　The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has amended the “SSE Guidance for Real-time Supervision on Abnormal Trading of Securities”, and changed its name to the “SSE Detailed Rules on Real-time Supervision on Abnormal Trading of Securities” (the “Detailed Rules” for short), in order to meet the new requirements for daily regulation on securities trading in the new situation, prevent and prohibit illegal behaviors in securities trading, keep normal trading order for the market, and protect the legal rights and interests of investors. The SSE hereby releases the “Detailed Rules”, and all relevant parties are required to abide by the “Detailed Rules”.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　December 17, 2013

Q&A on SSE “Notice of Further Strengthening Regulation on Trading at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing”
14 Dec 2013
　　An official of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) made remarks in an interview about the “Notice of Further Strengthening Regulation on Trading at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing” (the "Notice" for short) recently released by the SSE. 　　Q: As the SSE has issued relevant notices on strengthening regulation on trading at preliminary stage of new shares listing in 2012, could you please introduce the backdrop of issuing the "Notice" this time? 　　A: In order to strengthen regulation on trading at preliminary stage of new shares listing and prohibit speculation on new shares, the SSE issued the “Notice of Toughening Supervision on Trading at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing” and the “Notice of Strengthening Supervision on Clients’ Trading Behaviors at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing” on March 8, 2012, which has played a positive role in guiding investors to rationally participate in new shares trading and controlling speculation on new shares. 　　However, as China’s securities market is still at the “Emerging and Transitional” stage, relevant market mechanisms are still incomplete, with the culture of rational investment needing to be cultivated and the problem of speculation on new shares remaining salient. Excessive speculation on new shares will not only distort the normal price forming mechanism on the capital market, but also impede the normal function in optimized allocation of resources played by the capital market, in addition to giving rise to illegal behaviors and impairing interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors. Prevention and prohibition against excessive speculation on new shares remains a significant regulatory task for China’s securities market. 　　On November 30, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) issued the “Opinions on Further Promoting Reform of New Shares Issuance System” (the “Opinions” for short). With an aim to prevent excessive speculation on new shares on the market after resumption of new shares issuance, maintain normal trading order on the market, and protect legal rights and interests of investors, the “Opinions” requires stock exchanges to further complete the opening price forming mechanism on the first day of new shares listing as well as the trading mechanism at the preliminary stage of new shares listing, establish the trading suspension mechanism on the first day of listing based on issue prices of new shares, and strengthen restrictions on speculation on new shares. 　　The SSE issues the “Notice” according to the unified deployment of the CSRC, with a view to implementing the requirements of the “Opinions”, prevent and prohibit speculation on new shares, promote coordinated and sound development of primary and secondary markets, and provide a rationalized market environment facilitating the transition from examination and approval system to registration system in China's securities issuance system. The “Notice”, integrating the contents of the SSE’s 2 notices issued in March 2012, specifies relevant regulatory requirements regarding particular problems in practices. 　　Q: Compared with the 2 notices issued in 2012, could you tell us if there are any changes in the main content of the “Notice”? 　　A: Compared with the 2 notices released in 2012, there are mainly 4 changes in the content of the “Notice” as follows: 　　First, controlling measure on order prices on the first day of new shares listing is added. Namely, on the first day of new shares listing, effective order prices of investors should abide by the first article of the “Notice”, that is, "Any order with its price exceeding the range of the effective order price will be regarded as invalid." 　　Second, a new regulation is added, that is, “If no opening price appears during call auction, the first trading price of that day will be regarded as the opening price.” 　　Third, relevant trading information about investors of all categories will be released after the market closes on the first day of new shares listing. All market participants can log on the official website of the SSE (www.sse.com.cn) to inquire upon relevant information in the “Trading Information on the first Day of New Shares Listing” under the column “Trading Information Disclosure”. 　　Fourth, the rule "When the in-session turnover rate reaches 80% on the first day of new shares listing, in-session temporary trading suspension will be implemented." is cancelled. That is, the SSE will not implement in-session temporary trading suspension for new shares when the in-session turnover rate reaches 80% on the first day of new shares listing. 　　As for other contents of the “Notice”, such as the standard of price limit on the first day of new shares listing, as well as types and regulatory measures concerning abnormal trading behaviors involving new shares, requirements oriented to professional institutional investors, and members’ administrative responsibilities for their clients’ trading behaviors involving new shares are the same as those stated in the 2 notices released in 2012 on the whole. 　　Q: As new rules in the “Notice” may influence investors’ trading behaviors, which issues deserve investors’ special attention? 　　A: After the implementation of the “Notice”, investors are advised to pay attention to the following issues when participating in trading of new shares. 　　First, order prices should be kept within the limited range as stated. In order to prevent excessive speculation on the first day of new shares listing, the SSE will implement whole-day control over order prices on the first day of new shares listing. Namely, during call auction, the maximum order price should not be 120% higher than the issue price while the minimum order price should not be 80% lower than the issue price; and the effective order price during consecutive auction should neither be 120% higher than the maximum limit of order price (or 144% higher than the issue price) nor 80% lower than the minimum limit of order price (or 64% lower than the issue price) during call auction. Presently, the technological system of the SSE has developed and launched relevant application for controlling prices on the first day of new shares listing. 　　Second, it is possible that prices for new shares may reach the order price limit at market opening. Investment risks in the following cases deserve attention of investors: As control over the maximum and minimum limits of order prices is implemented on the first day of new shares listing, if there is no trading during call auction on the first day of new shares listing, the first trading price of that day will be regarded as the opening price, which means the extreme situation that the opening price is the highest (or the lowest) trading price (or 144% or 64% of the issue price) is possible. 　　Third, it is possible that the time for in-session trading suspension is a bit later than the time when the price for trading suspension is reached. As the SSE adopts the control method of asynchronous trading suspension for in-session temporary trading suspension in its trading system, actual time for trading suspension could be a bit later than the time when the price for trading suspension is reached, with specified time for trading suspension or resumption pursuant to the SSE’s announcements. 　　Fourth, investors may inquire upon new shares’ trading information concerning investors of all categories on the very day. In order to further strengthen trading information disclosure on the first day of new shares listing, the SSE will release the trading information concerning investors of all categories on the very day, in addition to announcing the names of the top 5 business departments with the largest amounts of new shares bought or sold, as well as relevant volumes and amounts in buying or selling on the first day of new shares listing, according to Article 5.4.3 in the Trading Rules of the SSE. All market participants can log on the official website of the SSE (www.sse.com.cn) to look for relevant information in the “Trading Information on the first Day of New Shares Listing” under the column “Trading Information Disclosure”. 　　Fifth, participants with serious rule-breaking behaviors can be identified as unqualified investors. In order to crack down on the rule-breaking behaviors of malicious speculation on new shares by very few investors, the regulatory measure of “identifying the account owner to be an unqualified investor” was firstly prescribed in the “Notice of Toughening Supervision on Trading at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing” released in 2012. Although the SSE has not yet implemented this regulatory measure so far, after resumption of new shares issuance this time, the SSE will identify some very few investors conducting malicious speculation on new shares as unqualified investors, in a bid to limit their rights of participation in trading at the preliminary stage of new shares listing in a certain period of time. 　　The SSE hereby reminds investors of the necessity in learning and abiding by relevant rules in the "Notice", and rationally participating in trading of new shares. The SSE also requires all member units to perform their administrative responsibilities for clients’ trading behaviors. In addition, all professional investors should voluntarily conform to the rules in the "Notice". 　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Issuing "Measures on Offline Issuance of IPO-related Shares on Shanghai Market"
13 Dec 2013
　　All participants related to offline issuance of new shares,   To rationalize the offline issuance of IPO-related shares for the companies planning to be listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), the SSE and China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited have jointly formulated the "Measures on Offline Issuance of IPO-related Shares on Shanghai Market" (the "Measures" for short), according to relevant rules and regulations such as the "Administration Measures on Securities Issuance and Underwriting", the "China Securities Regulatory Commission’s Opinions on Promoting Reform of New Share Issuance System", and the "Provisional Rules on Public Offering of Shares by Shareholders for IPO Companies". The "Measures" is hereby released, and all relevant parties are required to abide by the "Measures".   The "Detailed Rules (Amendment) for Offline Electronic Issuance of IPO-related Shares on Shanghai Market" released on June 18, 2009 is abolished at the same time.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited 　　December 13, 2013

Notice of Issuing "Measures on Online Subscribing for IPO-related Shares according to Market Capitalization on Shanghai Market"
13 Dec 2013
　　All participants related to online issuance of new shares,   To rationalize the business of online subscription for IPO-related shares according to market capitalization on Shanghai market, which involves the companies planning to be listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), the SSE and China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited have jointly formulated the "Measures on Online Subscribing for IPO-related Shares according to Market Capitalization on Shanghai Market" (the "Measures" for short) according to relevant rules and regulations such as the "Administration Measures on Securities Issuance and Underwriting", the "China Securities Regulatory Commission’s Opinions on Promoting Reform of New Share Issuance System", and the "Provisional Rules on Public Offering of Shares by Shareholders for IPO Companies". The "Measures" is hereby released, and all relevant parties are required to abide by the "Measures".   The stipulations on subscription for IPO-related shares involved in the "Measures (Amendment) on Capital Subscription of Online Share Issuance on Shanghai Market" released on June 18, 2009, in case of discrepancies with those in the "Measures", are pursuant to the "Measures".   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited 　　December 13, 2013

Notice on Further Strengthening Regulation on Trading at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing
13 Dec 2013
To all market participants,     In order to strengthen the regulation on the trading at the preliminary stage (the first 10 trading days after listing) of the listing of IPO-related shares (hereinafter referred to as the “new shares”), prevent and control the speculation on new shares, safeguard the normal trading order, and protect investors’ legal rights and interests, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby notifies, in accordance with the “Trading Rules of the SSE” and other relevant regulations, the relevant matters of strengthening regulation on the trading at the preliminary stage of new shares listing as follows:   1. The effective order price of any investors on the first day of new shares listing should meet the following requirements, and any order with its price exceeding the range of the effective order price will be regarded as invalid: 　　(1) The effective order price during call auction should neither be 120% higher nor 80% lower than the issue price; 　　(2) The effective order price during consecutive auction should neither be 144% higher nor 64% lower than the issue price.   And the effective order price from 14:55 to 15:00 should neither be 120% higher nor 80% lower than the opening price of that day. If no opening price appears during call auction, the first trading price of that day will be regarded as the opening price.   2. The SSE has the right to impose the in-session temporary trading suspension on any new share which has one of the following abnormal fluctuations during the consecutive auction stage on the first day of listing:   　　(1) The in-session trading price is over 10% (10% included) higher or lower than the intraday opening price for the first time; 　　(2) The in-session trading price is over 20% (20% included) higher or lower than the intraday opening price;   For any new shares whose trading is suspended due to the Clause (1), trading of the new shares should be suspended for only once on the same day with the duration of 30 minutes. If the time for trading suspension last till or past 14:55, the trading of the new shares should be resumed at 14:55 on the same day. For any new shares whose trading is suspended due to the Clauses (2), the trading of the shares should be suspended till 14:55 on the same day. After imposing in-session temporary trading suspension, the SSE has the right to announce the specific time for trading suspension and resumption through the official website of the SSE (www.sse.com.cn) and the satellite transmission system.   3. The SSE has the right to strengthen the monitoring on the following abnormal trading behaviors occurring at the preliminary stage of new shares listing: 　　(1) The same securities account or the multiple securities accounts controlled by the same controller accumulatively buy over 1‰ of the actual number of the new shares on a single day through bidding; 　　(2) The same securities account or the multiple securities accounts controlled by the same controller conduct intraday offsetting trading or frequent offsetting trading every other day in a large amount. 　　(3) During the stage of call auction or in 15 minutes before closing, the account has a severe impact on the opening or closing prices of new shares through high-priced orders, large-volume orders, continuous orders, frequent orders, withdrawal of orders, and other ways; 　　(4) During the stage of consecutive auction, when the latest trading price approximates the intraday highest trading price, the account accumulatively buys over 0.2‰ of the actual number of new shares upon making an order at the price no less than the lowest real-time purchase price disclosed on the market; 　　(5) The account buys a large amount of new shares at the price of 2% higher than the latest trading price disclosed on the market before the order is made; 　　(6) The account has a severe impact on the trading prices of new shares by making market orders in a large sum upon entrustment; 　　(7) The account conducts other abnormal trading behaviors of new shares the SSE regards necessary to be monitored in a strict way.   4. The SSE has the right to adjust the range of the effective order price and the standards for abnormal fluctuations and abnormal trading activities stipulated in this notice according to the market needs.   5. The SSE has the right to apply one or more of the following regulation measures to the securities account conducting the above-mentioned abnormal trading behaviors: 　　(1) Oral or written warnings; 　　(2) Requiring submitting a commitment letter of compliance trading; 　　(3) In-session trading suspension of the account on the very day; 　　(4) Identifying the account owner to be an unqualified investor and restricting his/her participation for a certain time in the trading at the preliminary stage of the listing of new shares.   The SSE will limit the trading of the account with serious rule-breaking activities and record it into the credit archives; and the SSE will report the account suspected of being involved in law-breaking activities to the China Securities Regulatory Commission for investigation.   6. The SSE will publicize the trading information of all types of investors engaging in the trading after the closing on the first day of new shares listing, and all market participants can log on the official website of the SSE to look for these information in the “Trading Information on the 1st Day of New Shares Listing” under the column “Trading Information Disclosure”.   7. The SSE members should well publicize this notice and inform their clients of the risks of new shares trading. They should also reinforce the management on clients’ trading behaviors at the preliminary stage of new shares listing. If the members find that their clients have one of the above-mentioned abnormal trading behaviors, they should warn the clients of the abnormal trading behaviors and timely take measures to stop them.   The members should refuse to accept the trading entrustment of the clients who conduct serious abnormal trading behaviors and keep doing them upon warning, or terminate the securities trading commission-agency relationship with customers and report them to the SSE according to relevant regulations of the “Detailed Rules on SSE Members’ Management of Clients’ Securities Trading”.   8. The SSE members should coordinate with the SSE to conduct cooperative regulation on the new shares trading and take measures to standardize and restrict the new shares trading behaviors of the accounts under strict surveillance in the new shares trading.   Headquarters of member units should designate persons responsible for the regulation on new shares trading, and persons-in-charge of securities business departments should directly take charge of the cooperative regulation on new shares trading in their business departments.   9. The SSE will carry out special inspections on members’ implementation of this notice. For those who do not implement this notice effectively, the SSE will adopt the following regulatory measures:   　　(1) For any member with two clients being restricted by the SSE due to abnormal trading behaviors of new shares in one year, the SSE will interview its executive; 　　(2) For any member with more than three clients (three included) being restricted by the SSE due to abnormal trading behaviors of new shares in one year, the SSE will issue a letter of regulatory concern to it according to actual conditions; 　　(3) For any member with more than five clients (five included) being restricted by the SSE due to abnormal trading behaviors of new shares in one year, the SSE will issue a criticism notice among all members according to actual conditions.   10. Professional institutional investors engaged in fund, insurance, and securities should actively cooperate in the implementation of this notice, insist on the principles of self-discipline and compliance, enhance the concept of value investing, and rationally participate in trading of new shares.   11. Other issues related to the regulation on the trading at the preliminary stage of new shares listing are subject to the “SSE Guidance for Real-time Supervision on Abnormal Securities Trading” and other business rules.   Relevant stipulations in the SSE’s relevant business rules which have discrepancies with those in this notice are pursuant to this notice.   12. This notice shall come into effect from the promulgation day. The “Notice of Toughening Supervision on Trading at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing” (Shang Zheng Jian Zi [2012] No. 4 Document) and the “Notice of Strengthening Supervision on Clients’ Trading Behaviors at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing” (Shang Zheng Jian Zi [2012] No. 5 Document) released by the SSE on March 8, 2012 shall be abolished at the same time.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　December 13, 2013

SSE Holds Training on Internet Merger, Acquisition in Beijing
13 Dec 2013
On December 12, 2013, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), Zero2IPO Group, and China Securities Co., Ltd. jointly hold the “Training on Internet Merger and Acquisition” in Beijing. Executives of over 50 SSE-listed companies and nearly 100 internet companies, and representatives of top internet investment institutions gather together to discuss opportunities for mergers and acquisitions as well as future development in the internet industry, and seek cooperation.   Xia Jianting, Assistant to SSE President, says that as the internet has been more and more closely integrated in the daily life, the capital market should strengthen its connection with internet companies and support their development. Excellent internet companies can not only bring vitality to the capital market but also create value for investors. The SSE, as an important organizer in the capital market, has attached great importance to the development of emerging industries like the internet industry, and it hopes that more and more enterprises in emerging industries can keep growing through the SSE blue-chip market. An official of the Offering and Listing Department of the SSE holds that listing is an important way for internet companies to grow stronger, and for the same issuer, listing in different domestic boards means encountering of the same group of investors and no difference in IPO Price-to-Earnings ratio. Senior experts in the internet industry are also invited to discuss the situation and development of the internet merger and acquisition market, talk about their experience in the innovation of the internet industry, and share excellent cases of internet mergers and acquisitions with the participants. Besides, the training builds a communication platform for listed companies that attempt to merge and acquire or invest in those from segmented internet industries related to games, media, film and TV, and mobile internet, so as to propel integration of industrial resources.   The representatives all agree that the training plays a positive role in improving the SSE’s service for small and medium-sized enterprises, cementing the SSE’s value-added service for listed companies, facilitating reinforced rationalization of listed companies, intensifying the SSE’s service for emerging industries, and boosting deep integration of the internet industry. And it expands the SSE’s influence on the internet industry.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE, Listed Companies Holds Discussion: Studying Requirements of 3rd Plenary Session
12 Dec 2013
On the afternoon of December 4, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) organizes representatives of over 10 listed companies, including China Unicom, China Shipping Container Lines Co., Ltd., Shanghai Construction Group Co., Ltd., Shanghai Belling Co., Ltd., Shanghai Oriental Pearl (Group) Co., Ltd., Shanghai Shentong Metro Co., Ltd., Shanghai Lonyer Fuels Co., Ltd., Shanghai Kaichuang Marine International Co., Ltd., Shanghai Lujiazui Finance & Trade Zone Development Co., Ltd., Shanghai Shibei Hi-tech Co., Ltd., Shanghai Haibo Co., Ltd., Shanghai Zhixin Electric Co., Ltd., and Shanghai Friendship Group Incorporated Company, and holds a symposium on studying the requirements put forward at the 3rd Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee (the 3rd Plenary Session for short). The representatives exchange their views after studying the requirements of the 3rd Plenary Session and, according to circumstances of their companies and relevant industries, carry out an in-depth discussion on such issues as how to implement the requirements of the 3rd Plenary Session, how to promote industrial transformation, and how to strengthen the capital market’s services for the real economy.   The representatives say that the 3rd Plenary Session has made a deployment to fuel the all-round reform, strengthened decisive roles of markets in allocation of resources, and given a clear direction for the reform and opening-up as well as the steady development of the capital market, which has created unprecedented opportunities for further development of China’s capital market and listed companies. First, the 3rd Plenary Session has further sorted out the relation between the government and the market. The government will, through its self-reform, simplify relevant examination and approval procedures and give more authorities to the market and the society, so enterprises, including listed companies, will get a more liberalized operation environment. Second, the economic reform is the focus of the all-round reform. Listed companies in different industries and with different ownership systems will benefit from the economic reform, and they can seize this opportunity to enhance their market competitiveness through industrial transformation and upgrading as well as system and mechanism innovation. Third, the 3rd Plenary Session has made clear the important position and role of the capital market in developing the socialist market economy. As a result, the capital market’s function of effectively serving the real economy will be better displayed, and financing environment for listed companies will be optimized as well.   The representatives acknowledge the efforts of the SSE in serving and regulating listed companies and hold that the SSE’s innovative measures such as the “Direct Channel” have conformed to the requirement of streamlining administration and decentralizing authorities and helped to make each party of the market fulfill their functions. In face of a new round of development and reform, the representatives put forward their expectations and suggestions to the SSE. First, they hope that the SSE will strengthen trainings on information disclosure and direct financing of listed companies; second, they suggest that the SSE make efforts on innovating financing products and tools so as to provide convenience for listed companies to expand their financing channels; third, they suggest that the SSE learn from experience of mature markets to innovate regulation mechanism and explore industry regulation in light of industry factors. Besides, some representatives, according to conditions of their own companies, present their opinions and suggestions in terms of the B-share reform, the cash dividend distribution, the delisting mechanism, and the financing environment of listed real estate enterprises.   Xu Ming, Vice President of the SSE, makes a conclusion on the requirements of the 3rd Plenary Session. He stresses that one distinctive aspect of the 3rd Plenary Session is that it has made clear decisive roles of markets in allocation of resources and encouraged innovation and reform, and it has specified the relation between the government and the market. He hopes that listed companies can fully comprehend the requirements of the 3rd Plenary Session, and they can recognize that creativity is productivity and competitiveness. And they will further boost innovation by making use of the financial reform. He also encourages listed companies to take market-oriented measures and cement innovation in terms of capital operation, corporate governance, and risk control. He adds that the SSE will, according to the capital market and its own work, earnestly implement the requirements of the 3rd Plenary Session, do well in serving listed companies, provide suggestions for reasonable concerns of listed companies, and facilitate realization of their reinforced rationalization through merger, acquisition, and reorganization as well as other means. Meanwhile, the SSE will, in accordance with the idea of streamlining administration and decentralizing authorities, loosening control, and cementing regulation, change regulation ideas and innovate regulation methods and enhance pertinence and effectiveness of regulation on information disclosure, so as to safeguard legitimate rights and interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE, To-be-listed Companies Hold Discussion: Implementing Requirements of 3rd Plenary Session, Reforming New Share Issuance System
11 Dec 2013
On December 4, 2013, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) holds a symposium themed with “Implementing Requirements of 3rd Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee (the 3rd Plenary Session for short), Reforming the New Share Issuance System”, in order to implement the requirements put forward at the 3rd Plenary Session and those for the reform of the new share issuance system, as well as better serve the real economy. Attending the symposium are to-be-listed companies (from Shanghai, Zhejiang Province, and Jiangsu Province) in the industries of biomedicine, online media, information service, as well as emerging and traditional manufacture, which compare notes on the opportunities and challenges brought about by the 3rd Plenary Session and the reform of the new share issuance system for companies’ listing.   The to-be-listed companies say that the 3rd Plenary Session, a proclamation of propelling the all-round reform and a strategy for Chinese nation's great rejuvenation, will exert profound influence on the growth of China’s economy and bring about unprecedented opportunities for enterprises. First, the country will attach more importance to adjusting industrial structure and propel the tertiary industry, which will contribute to providing more opportunities for the growth of emerging industries such as the online media industry and the information service industry. Enterprises’ growth should conform to the orientation of the country’s industrial development, and the space for emerging industries’ development will be broadened in the future; second, diversified ownership structure will be more conducive to drawing on each other's strength and reaching a win-win situation for the capital forms with diversified ownerships, and it will contribute to maintenance and appreciation of values as well as improvement of competitiveness for state-owned assets. The state-controlled enterprises with traditional and undiversified property-right structure should conform to the reform, explore diversified ownership structure, and vitalize themselves; third, systems should be used to protect environment, which will boost the development of the new energy industry. The 3rd Plenary Session stressed environmental protection, put forward the requirement of “Speeding up the construction of eco-civilization system and building a complete eco-civilization system” and that of accelerating technical innovation and industrial upgrading in the new energy field, so new energy companies and environmental protection enterprises will have great potentials in the future; fourth, traditional industries’ sustainable growth depends on innovation in technology and management. Besides, a broad space will be provided for enterprises’ reforms in the process of industrial upgrading, and they should be further vitalized for the development of the country’s pillar industries.   All the participating enterprises hold that innovation is of great significance for all industries’ growth, while it is driven by capital, especially the multi-tiered capital market. The reform of the new share issuance system has been further fueled since the 3rd Plenary Session. Noticeably, the promotion of the reform of the registration system of share issuance will considerably contribute to increasing the proportion of enterprises’ direct financing, and the capital market’s role in supporting the real economy will be more apparent and urgent. Enterprises’ further learning and understanding the requirements of the 3rd Plenary Session is to seize the chances brought about by the reform, recognize the rules of the market development and the special functions of the capital market, take reinforced rationalization of enterprises and their returns to the society and investors as ultimate goals in relevant industries.   The SSE said that enterprises’ growth is closely associated with reforms, and the reform and innovation of the capital market will contribute to the growth of the real economy. To-be-listed companies have got valuable chances with the convention of the 3rd Plenary Session and the promotion of the market-oriented reform of new share issuance. The promotion of the reform, and the simplified administration, as well as the decentralization of authorities put forward at the 3rd Plenary Session will thoroughly specify the relation between the government and the market. The capital market will have great potentials in the future as markets should play decisive roles in allocation of resources. Under the backdrop of the new round of reform and development, the reform of the registration system of share issuance put forward by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) has given a general goal for the new share issuance reform, and issuance and listing of companies will further adhere to marketization and legal construction. Moreover, the SSE will vigorously implement all the requirements of the CSRC for relevant reforms, make full preparations for the issuance reform, and provide supporting services for issuance, listing, and information disclosure, in a bid to boost the new round of reform.   　　Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE, Securities Companies Hold Discussion: Implementing Requirements of 3rd Plenary Session, Boosting Securities Industry’s Growth
06 Dec 2013
Recently, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) organizes securities institutions including SWS, Guotai Junan Securities, Orient Securities, Galaxy Securities, Industrial Securities, Haitong Securities, GF Securities, UBS Securities, Changjiang Securities, Qilu Securities, and holds the “Symposium on Implementing the Requirements of the 3rd Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee (the 3rd Plenary Session for short) and Boosting the Growth of Securities Industry”. At the symposium, all the securities companies talk about the requirements put forward at the 3rd Plenary Session, and compare notes on the opportunities and challenges in the Chinese capital market and the Chinese securities industry.   The attendees say that the China Securities Regulatory Commission has recently released 4 reform measures, involving reform of the new share issuance system, pilot work of preferred shares, cash dividend distribution of listed companies, back-door listing, and other aspects, which indicates the orientation of adhering to marketization and legal construction in the reform, highlights the reform concepts of protecting legal rights and interests of investors and encouraging value investing, responds in the field of the capital market to the requirements at the 3rd Plenary Session, and contributes to the growth of the Chinese capital market in a long run.   All the attendees hold that the requirement of propelling the reform to speed up the perfection of the modern market system put forward at the 3rd Plenary Session has given a direction for the development of securities companies, and the securities industry is embracing new development opportunities. The securities companies put forward several suggestions on the future market development. First, in the principle of making markets play decisive roles in allocation of resources, it is expected to continuously provide various fundamental innovative products, so as to meet diversified needs of investors and give powerful support for the innovative growth of the industry; second, it is expected to boost the reform of the new share issuance system, improve corporate governance of listed companies, guide and perfect the cash dividend distribution system, and implement the investor suitability management system by taking protection of small and medium-sized investors as a basic guideline and adhering to the idea of encouraging long-term investment in the market; third, all the market participants should work together to fuel the construction of the multi-tiered capital market, enhance the efficiency of allocating financial resources, meet different investment needs, and facilitate the good interaction among markets at different levels; fourth, it is expected to vitalize the market, develop the bond, fund, and derivative markets, further support the business transformation of securities companies, and create conditions for leading and boosting the industrial innovation.   The SSE says that under the backdrop of all-round transformation of government functions and full vitalization of the market, it will give full play to its role as a self-regulatory organization, so as to further provide services for all the market players including securities companies. First, the SSE will encourage securities dealers and other market players to take the initiative in the market competition, in addition to further studying and perfecting the functions of self-regulatory organizations in developing and regulating the market, in a bid to make each party of the market fulfill their functions; second, abiding by the market rules, the SSE will further boost the innovation of business lines, products, trading systems, and regulatory ways and improve its services; third, the SSE will support independent innovation of securities dealers, develop new service tools for the market, and meet needs of different kinds of investors; fourth, the SSE will give full play to the market constraint system, rationalize the self-regulatory management, apart from making full preparations for the market reform and guarantee the transparency of relevant business lines and regulation in the principle of “Justice, Fairness, and Openness” and that of protection of investors.   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE Lifts Upper Limit to Amount of Single Bond Order
04 Dec 2013
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently adjusted the upper limit to the amount of single bond order prescribed in Article 3.4.9 of the “SSE Trading Rules”. The SSE has lifted the maximum amount of single order in bond trading and bond collateralized repo in the auction system from 10,000 lots to 100,000 lots, namely, from face value of RMB10 million to RMB0.1 billion.   According to relevant source of the SSE, with the constantly expanding scale of bond trading and the increasing amount of investors’ single order, the SSE’s present limit to order amount can no longer meet the need of market development, especially the demand for investment of institutional investors, who expect orders of large trading amount. Lifting the upper limit to the amount of single order this time aims at meeting the need of investors participating in spot bond trading and repo trading, thus enhancing trading efficiency of the SSE bond market. It is learnt that the adjustment will take effect from December 9. In the future, the SSE will further complete relevant mechanisms for bond trading according to bond market development and investors’ requirements.   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE: Five Measures for Reform of New Share Issuance
02 Dec 2013
On November 30, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) issued the “Opinions on Further Propelling the Reform of the New Share Issuance System” (the “Opinions” for short). After learning and discussing the “Opinions”, cadres and employees of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) said that the “Opinions”, which embodied common concerns of all market participants and absorbed all the wits of market players, would exert significant transformational influence on the reform and development of the capital market, and consolidate the institutional foundation for the sound growth of the capital market.   The SSE spokesman said that the “Opinions” responded in the field of the capital market the major viewpoint of “We should make markets play decisive roles in allocation of resources” put forward at the 3rd plenary session of the 18th CPC Central Committee. The “Opinions” took “New Share Issuance” as a key point to trigger the reform and development of the capital market. With the fundamental orientation of marketization and legal construction, the “Opinions” for the first time combed the significant relation between the government and the market in new share issuance. In the principle of “Each party of the market has fulfilled their functions”, the “Opinions” considerably enriched and perfected the contents and measures for the construction of the new share issuance system. With an aim to protect legal rights and interests of investors, the “Opinions” propelled the capital market to stress the concept of value investing and revitalize the investment function.   “The release of the “Opinions” marked a great transformational change in the relation between the government and the capital market”, said the SSE spokesman, “An employee said in the discussion: Reform is towards oneself, not others.” The ‘Opinions’ specified the time limit of examination of new share issuance, abandoned rights of value judgment and substantive examination, relieved technical controls over time point, pricing, and allotment, ushered in various market-oriented issuance ways, cemented the whole-process information disclosure of new share issuance, and embodied the regulatory authority’s clear recognition towards its self-positioning and the position of market participants. The great transformational change of the relation between the government and the market would be conducive to clarifying market expectations, enriching price information, reinforcing market constraints, and enhancing credibility”.   “The release of the “Opinions” symbolized a great transformational change in the institutional construction of the capital market”, said the SSE spokesman, “In light of actual conditions of the country and the society, the ‘Opinions’, facing harsh comment of ‘Financing outweighing returns’ in the market, reminded buyers, represented by small and medium-sized investors, of strengthening the sense of independent judgment and caveat emptor. The “Opinions” also exerted more harsh constraints on the behaviors of sellers, represented by issuers and major shareholders. Especially, the ‘Opinions’ put strict constraints on shareholding decrease, stabilization of share price, intent of shareholding, fulfillment of promise, information disclosure, and others for an array of chronic problems in the market such as ‘High Issuance Price, High P/E Ratios and Excessive Funds Raising’ and ‘Money Grabbing’, and gave some new arrangements for inspection and law enforcement, and aftermath accountability. The great transformational change in the institutional construction of the capital market would contribute to enhancing confidence in the market, protecting interest and rights of investors, and reinforcing constraints of equity financing”.   “The release of the “Opinions” indicated that the market would fully revitalize the investment function, and a major transformation from the ‘policy-guided market’ and the ‘speculation market’ to the ‘investment market’, as expected by experts, scholars, and market participants, would be realized as well”, said the SSE spokesman, “From the perspective of controlling speculation on new shares, the ‘Opinions’ put forward clear requirements for the work of exchanges, which was great significance for avoiding misguiding of heavy speculation, advocating the idea of value investing, building a close relation between the market and the real economy. In addition, the CSRC issued new regulations on preferred shares, dividend distribution, and back-door listing, which were of great importance for guiding value investing, stressing returns from listed companies, cracking down on market speculations, and building the ‘investment market’”.   “Reform, represented by the ‘Opinions’, is the biggest institutional dividend for the capital market. The reform of new share issuance boasted unprecedented broadness and depth, which indicated that the reformers fully understood the emerging and transitional capital market for the reform of new share issuance, and respected the history and the current situation; the reformers specified the positioning and borders of the government and the market, and respected themselves and the market; and they also highlighted marketization, legal construction, and protection of legal rights and interests of investors in the reform, and respected the actual conditions of the country and rules. We believed that the ‘Opinions’ would be conducive to the Chinese capital market in a long run. Especially, it would facilitate to build an investment-friendly capital market, after which a real-economy-oriented capital market would come into being”, said the SSE spokesman.   The SSE spokesman said that in order to implement the requirements of the “Opinions”, ensure the smooth operation of the market, and better protect interests of investors, the SSE initially planned to take 5 measures on the reform of new share issuance way and the regulation on new share listing. First, on the basis of initial preparations together with depository & clearing institutions, the SSE would continuously study and perfect the business rules of online subscription (linked with market capitalization) and offline allotment, comb relevant business procedures, and rationalize relevant work such as guidelines for issuing and listing; second, the SSE would promptly reconstruct relevant technical system for the reform of new share issuance, and timely tell issuers, underwriters, and investors; third, the SSE would prevent and control speculation on new shares, make more strict measures on price control on the first day of listing, require disclosure of more trading information on the first day of listing of new shares, cement management on eligible investors, and maintain the trading order of the market; fourth, the “Guidelines for the Content and Format of Announcement on Share Listing” would be amended, in a bid to strengthen the information disclosure of new share listing; fifth, the SSE would continue to reinforce the regulation work by putting the requirements for promise fulfillment and information disclosure towards relevant parties newly added in the reform into regular supervision and examination on the sponsor’s opinions on continuous supervision, and other work, as well as giving disciplinary punishments on the parties breaking their promises.   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure Consultation Committee Established
02 Dec 2013
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently established the Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure Consultation Committee (the “Consultation Committee” for short), which is the SSE’s innovative measure based on the actual requirement of scientific development of the capital market, so as to give full play to the role of the market mechanism.   Sticking to strict, fair, and efficient law enforcement is the significant foundation for stimulating market vitality, regulating market order, and promoting sound and steady operation of the capital market. Besides, regulation on information disclosure of listed companies is also a significant part in the system of inspection and law enforcement on the whole. Facing an increasingly complicated market environment, as well as new features and problems in listed companies’ information disclosure, the SSE has been constantly improving pertinence and effectiveness for information disclosure, while centering on the core responsibility of regulation on information disclosure, on the basis of urging listed companies to perform information disclosure in compliance with relevant rules and regulations. Establishment of the Consultation Committee is another measure of the SSE after launching the direct channel for information disclosure and the SSE e-interaction platform, which aims at giving full play to the strength of the market, hear more advices and suggestions from all market participants, enhance quality of listed companies’ information disclosure, explore to build a more objective and independent evaluation mechanism for self-regulatory supervision over listed companies’ information disclosure, facilitate building of creditability on the capital market, protect legal rights and interests of investors, in a bid to create a more open, impartial, and fair market environment.   As the appointment system is adopted in the Consultation Committee, term of one session of the Consultation Committee will be 2 years, with 30 to 50 members at each session. The 1st session of the Consultation Committee was established on November 28, 2013, which consists of members mainly from security companies, fund companies, assets management companies, accounting firms, law firms, consultation companies, news media, as well as colleges and research institutions, manifesting objectiveness and independence, professional authority, high representativeness, and all-round background of the Consultation Committee.   The Consultation Committee’s work responsibilities mainly involve 4 aspects as follows:   First, it assesses quality of the SSE-listed companies’ information disclosure, and issues independent and objective evaluation report.   Second, it assesses regulatory measures and effects of the SSE-listed companies’ information disclosure, and issues relevant independent report.   Third, it carries out follow-up evaluation on the regulatory system, mechanism, and procedures of information disclosure of the capital market, and provides professional advice for major problems in the SSE’s regulation on information disclosure.   Fourth, it studies the latest trend in regulation on information disclosure both at home and abroad, as well as the problems in listed companies’ information disclosure, conducts in-depth explorations and studies for development trend of regulation on information disclosure, in addition to providing relevant suggestions on policies for the SSE.   Attachment: List of Members of the 1st Session of the Consultation Committee (with all names in random order):   Lu Zefeng, Xu Ming, Shi Duoli, Lin Yongfeng, Lu Wendao, Suo Lihui, Yang Xiaotao, Jin Xiaobin, Wu Fei, Luo Binhua, Han Xianwang, Xue Zhen, Qiu Guogen, Ou Haitao, Zhou Chuangen, Cheng Xiaoming, Shen Hongshan, Lin Jianhua, Liu Dali, Dai Dingyi, Luo Yucheng, Li Dan, Zhou Hua, Lin Yixiang, Lian Chunhui, Huang Junfeng, Wang Lu, Zhu Li, Wang Hong, Yang Yudong, Li Jing, Pan Qing, Xie Weiqun, Chen Jie, Peng Bing, Ye Lin, Zhu Ciyun, Gao Minghua, Li Ruoshan, Luo Peixin, and Chen Xinyuan.  

Gui Minjie: Launching More Convenient, Flexible Trading Mechanism for Big-cap Blue Chips
29 Nov 2013
Gui Minjie, Governor of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), said at the 4th SSE Legal Forum yesterday that the SSE would base itself on the orientation of organizing, serving, and managing the market and, with the spirit of reform, accelerate the construction of the SSE market. The key of its reform and construction would be in the two fields of the market system and the opening-up, which included the SSE’s four strategies, that is, making the blue chip market bigger and stronger, promoting the great-leap-forward development of the bond market, breaking through the development bottleneck of securities derivatives, and enhancing the openness of the market. And with regard to the strategy of breaking through the development bottleneck of securities derivatives, the preparatory work for individual-stock-option-related business lines, rules, techniques, and market mobilization had been ready after a long time of efforts, and the time had come and the conditions had been ripe for launching. Gui believed that the construction of the market system mainly should focus on improving the product chain of the Exchange, innovating the trading mode, and establishing a complete market system with the core of the blue chip market and the coordinated development of the bond market, the assets management market, and the securities derivatives market. With regard to the opening-up, efforts should be made on adapting to the financial market’s development trend of opening to the outside world, speeding up the SSE’s opening-up pace, and actively participating in international competition. In a word, the above-mentioned two fields have included the four strategies of the SSE. First, the SSE would, in accordance with the strategy of making the blue chip market bigger and stronger, build its blue-chip market into an important place for the major sections and resources allocation of a multi-leveled capital market. Therefore, the SSE should conform to the new requirements of the securities regulatory organizations in their regulatory transition, actively deal with the key reforms in the issuance and registration system, and research and improve the listing system, the refinancing system, the board switch system, and the delisting system, so as to do well in the reform-supporting preparations from the SSE’s level. Besides, the SSE would further optimize the system of direct channel for listed companies’ information disclosure and change the “Beforehand Examination” of the information disclosure regulation into “In-process Supervision and Aftermath Regulation”, so as to enhance the efficiency and the quality. Besides, it would research and put forward a more convenient and more flexible trading mechanism for big-cap blue chips, optimize the margin trading and securities lending system, reduce trading costs, and enhance trading efficiency, thus increasing the return and attraction of the blue chip market. Second, the SSE would, in line with the strategy of promoting the great-leap-forward development of the bond market, grasp the favorable opportunity brought about by the accelerated construction of a standard and unified bond market and strive to expand the breadth and depth of the SSE bond market, so as to provide support for displaying the bond market’s function of direct financing, dispersing financial risks, and increasing investment tools. Therefore, the SSE would further follow inherent characteristics of bond products and the basic principles of the bond market, optimize the bond trading mechanism, and improve the bond business rules system, so as to provide convenient service for the listing, trading, and transferring of such new bond products as subordinated debt, write-down debt, exchangeable corporate bond, and credit asset securitization. Third, it would, according to the strategy of breaking through the development bottleneck of securities derivatives, make up for its short planks, such as the unitary product structure of its market and the blank in the securities derivatives market, and focus on innovating individual stock option products. After a long time of efforts, the preparatory work for individual-stock-option-related business lines, rules, techniques, and market mobilization had been ready, and the time had come and the conditions had been ripe for launching. Fourth, it would, in line with the strategy of enhancing the openness of the market, grasp the opportunity of accelerating the opening-up of the financial market and make great efforts on increasing the openness of the SSE’s market. For this, the SSE would further strengthen its in-depth cooperation with overseas exchanges, speed up its development of cross-border ETF products, actively explore in the mutual listing and launching of products and the cooperation with overseas exchanges, and intensify the interchange of data and quotes information with overseas exchanges, thus increasing the international level of the SSE and enhancing the international influence and competitiveness of the SSE market. Gui said that the legislative planing of the Standing Committee of the 12th National People’s Congress had specified that amending the “Securities Law” would be among the class one projects for the legislative plan, symbolizing that the work of amending the “Securities Law” had entered the formal process of law revision. The market was badly in need of the amendment to the “Securities Law”, and the full initial preparation and the right time had constituted ripe conditions for accelerated promotion and early release. Source: Shanghai Securities News

Xu Ming: Change Mode of Statutory Listing Conditions, Usher in New Listing Systems
29 Nov 2013
“Perfection of the legal system for listed companies is an important task for amending the ‘Securities Law’”, said Vice President Xu Ming of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) at the 4th SSE Legal Forum yesterday. He suggested that the mode of statutory conditions for securities’ listing should be changed, while some new listing systems, such as “Board Switch” and “Listing by Introduction” should be ushered in. Besides, efforts should be made to simplify conditions and procedures for refinancing and work out diversified modes of merger, acquisition, and reorganization.   “How to adapt to the marketization, legal construction, globalization of the capital market as well as restructure and perfect the legal system for listed companies is a key issue for amending the ‘Securities Law’”, said Xu. He also suggested that the legal system for listed companies should be consummated in terms of the systems of securities’ listing, listed companies’ information disclosure, listed companies’ refinancing, as well as merger, acquisition, and reorganization.   As for the improvement of the system of securities’ listing, Xu put forward the following two focuses. First, we should further deal with the relation between securities’ issuance and securities’ listing, and that between administrative regulation over listed companies and self-disciplinary management of listed companies. Moreover, we should change the mode of statutory conditions for securities’ listing. That is, the conditions for securities’ listing, listing suspension, listing termination, and others currently stipulated in the “Securities Law” should be specified in the listing rules made by relevant securities exchanges. Second, we should usher in new listing systems. It was suggested that eligible off-floor listed enterprises should be allowed to switch to exchanges for listing. Furthermore, some non-IPO listing ways in overseas markets, such as “Listing by Introduction” should be ushered in.   In addition, conditions and standards for delisting should be further rationalized. It would be necessary to add “Serious Law-breaking Behavior” as one of the conditions for delisting and take “Fraud Issuance”, “Illegal Disclosure of Significant Information”, and others recognized by competent authorities as triggers of delisting.   When it comes to the improvement of the system of listed companies’ information disclosure, Xu held that the guiding principles for the parties concerned to fulfill the obligation of information disclosure should be perfected. Timeliness and fairness, as well as authenticity, accurateness, and completeness, should be taken as fundamental principles of information disclosure in stipulations of the “Securities Law”.   Xu also added that investor-friendly requirements for the quality of information disclosure should be put forward, and facilitation of investors’ understanding should be taken as one of the standards for the quality of information disclosure. We should consider that pertinence and significance of information disclosure, completeness and accurateness of risk disclosure, understandability and readability of disclosed information should be enlisted into the information disclosure system of the “Securities Law”. Furthermore, legal validity of electronic disclosure should be acknowledged, in a bid to meet online investors’ need for quick access to information.   Xu said that the accountability on information disclosure should be strengthened. He advised that when amending the “Securities Law”, guiding and operational stipulations should be formulated for the responsibilities of infringements in the securities market, including scope of plaintiff, responsibility undertaker, and scope of compensation.   Concerning the optimization of the systems of listed companies’ refinancing as well as merger, acquisition, and reorganization, Xu gave the following three suggestions.   First, conditions and procedures for refinancing should be simplified. The requirement for financial indicators among issuance conditions could be cancelled, while the system of “Shelf Offering” could be introduced. Concerning the examination procedures, the examiner of listed companies’ refinancing could be changed to relevant securities exchanges, so as to elevate the efficiency of examination.   Second, we should work out diversified ways of merger, acquisition, and reorganization, and simplify examination procedures. The innovation of the systems of merger, acquisition, and reorganization in relevant laws, regulations, rules, regulatory documents should be refined into the “Securities Law”. The systems of indirect purchase and exemption from obligation of tender offer should be added. The system of squeezing out remaining shares should also be established, that is, any purchaser holding more than 90% shares in a listed company is allowed to make a mandatory acquisition towards remaining shares held by other shareholders.   Third, a market-oriented constraint system should be built. Listed companies, controlling shareholders, actual controllers, purchasers, and others should be guided to make promises about performances and others, and the regulation and accountability on fulfillment of promises should be cemented as well.   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE, Fund Companies Hold Discussion: Implementing Requirements of 3rd Plenary Session, Boosting Fund Industry’s Growth
28 Nov 2013
On the morning of November 26, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) organizes 8 fund companies (E Fund, Fortune SG, Bosera Funds, Guotai AMC, China International Fund Management, Hua’an Funds, China Universal Asset Management, and Huatai-PineBridge) and holds the “Symposium on Implementing the Requirements of the 3rd Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee (the 3rd Plenary Session for short) and Boosting the Growth of Fund Industry”. At the symposium, all the fund companies exchange their attainments in learning the requirements put forward at the 3rd Plenary Session and talk about their experience in speeding up the industry development and innovation. They also have in-depth communication on some innovation subjects.   The fund companies all say that greatly inspired by the 3rd Plenary Session, they are fully confident in the transformation of the economy and the development of the capital market. They suggest that implementing the requirements and boosting the industry innovation can be achieved from the following three aspects. The first is to propel marketization. They also suggest that the SSE can integrate trading and bookkeeping to enhance market’s operating efficiency; it can match up with the interest rate liberalization, strengthen the construction of the on-floor bond market, and improve the on-floor rate curve; it can also set up an open price inquiry mechanism to increase the IPO pricing efficiency; and it can coordinate with the fund companies to further products innovation and promote the development of individual stock options, asset securitization products, commodity products, and urbanization-featured financial products. Second, it is suggested that the SSE can engage in innovative products with more openness and improve the cross-border ETF product mechanism, so as to enhance the diversified functions for subscription and redemption. Third, the SSE is suggested to actively participate in the construction of the internet financial platform, so as to enhance the market’s operating efficiency and reduce its operating cost.   The SSE responds to the concerns and suggestions of the representatives present at the symposium. It will further enhance its work efficiency, perfect the time-limited supervisory handling mechanism, and increase the service response efficiency. Besides, it will further support the industry product innovation to provide investors with diversified wealth management products characterized by portfolios of different risks and returns. Meanwhile, the SSE puts forward two expectations for the fund companies. First, it hopes that the fund companies, instead of being carried away by quote fluctuations, would give full play to their role in stabilizing the market as institutional investors; second, the SSE hopes that the fund companies will enthusiastically participate in the SSE’s simulated trading of individual stock options and actively cultivate talents in the field of securities derivatives.   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE Studies, Implements Requirements of 3rd Plenary Session of 18th CPC Central Committee
16 Nov 2013
On the morning of November 15, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held an outreach meeting for the leading group of the SSE CPC Committee to study and discuss the requirements put forward at the 3rd Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee (hereafter referred to as the 3rd Plenary Session).   The Meeting believed that the 3rd Plenary Session was an important session held under the new situation of China’s reform and opening-up. All objectives and tasks put forward at the 3rd Plenary Session would undoubtedly exert great and profound influence on China’s economic and social development. Meanwhile, many key reforms, including the reform of the capital market itself, would provide solid foundation and conditions for the innovative development of the capital market. China’s capital market would embrace a new round of rare development opportunity.   The Meeting said that the 3rd Plenary Session demanded that market should play a decisive role in resource allocation, which was an important breakthrough of the socialist market economic theory in the new historical period. As one of the key links of the modern market system, the SSE must stick to the market-oriented reform, expand the depth and breadth of the SSE market, and attract more investors and financiers of different levels and demands to participate in SSE market, so as to allow the SSE market to play a greater role in the new round of economic reform and growth.   The Meeting demanded that at present and in the future period, the SSE would do well in studying and implementing the requirements put forward at the 3rd Plenary Session according to the deployment made by the CPC Central Committee and the CPC Committee of the China Securities Regulatory Commission. The SSE would further emancipate its mind and transform the study and implementation of the requirements put forward at the 3rd Plenary Session into a strong impetus of actively participating in the reform and development of the capital market with high spirits. The SSE would promote the research and development of individual stock options, implement the innovative pilot of preferred shares, develop the exchanged-based bond market, further serve strategic emerging industries and enterprises, and propel the implementation of reform tasks including the opening-up of the market. Besides, it would, by supporting reinforced rationalization of listed companies, bring investors with good returns to enhance its capacity in serving the real economy, thus contributing its due share in helping the capital market to realize the China dream.   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

Notice of Soliciting Public Opinions on “SSE Guidance (Draft) for Operation of Audit Committees under Listed Companies’ Directorates”
29 Oct 2013
To all market participants,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the “SSE Guidance (Draft) for Operation of Audit Committees under Listed Companies’ Directorates” (the “Guidance for Operation” for short, see Attachment 1), the Remarks on Drawing up the “Guidance for Operation” (see Attachment 2), and the Remarks on Significant Issues for Soliciting Public Opinions (see Attachment 3), in order to propel the corporate governance of listed companies and standardize the operation of audit committees under listed companies’ directorates. And the SSE hereby solicits opinions from the public.   Please send your opinions or suggestions on the draft to the SSE in written form or by e-mail before November 6, 2013.   Fax: 021-68811782 E-mail: jywang @sse.com.cn Mailing address: SSE Department II of Listed Companies Supervision, 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　  October 29, 2013

SSE’s New Trading Rules to be Implemented in Dec.: Thresholds For Block Trading Lowered
19 Oct 2013
With the growth of the Chinese capital market and the successive launching of innovative business lines and products, the market is increasingly calling for a flexible and diversified trading system. The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), in response to the market need, carries out systematical innovation and platform renovation for the block trading market, in a bid to build it into a wholesale market advancing in line with the bidding-based matching market. Besides, the SSE continues to diversify and perfect trading products and systems of the bond market. In order to standardize innovative business lines, the SSE has made some amendments to the “SSE Trading Rules”. That is, it has made some complements and adjustments for issues including the systematical innovation of block trading, the relevant arrangement for repayment of bonds on installments, the upper limit of single declared order of bonds, and intraday trading of bond ETF products and others, with the details as follows:   1. The thresholds for block trading are lowered properly. With an aim to attract more investors to participate in block trading, the thresholds for the block trading of A shares, B shares, and funds are lowered to about 60% of former standards, and those for the block trading of treasury bonds and repo of bonds will be decreased to the same standards as those for other kinds of bonds. Specifically, the lower limit for block trading of A shares is adjusted from 0.5 million shares or RMB3 million to 0.3 million shares or RMB2 million; that for block trading of B shares is adjusted from 0.5 million shares or USD0.3 million to 0.3 million shares or USD0.2 million; that for block trading of funds is adjusted from 3 million fund units or RMB3 million to 2 million fund units or RMB2 million; that for block trading of treasury bonds and bonds repo is adjusted from 10,000 lots or RMB10 million to 1,000 lots or RMB1 million.   2. The type of fixed-price declaration for block trading is added. The current block trading, characterized by price negotiation, might trigger an array of surmises and even queries towards knock-down prices in the market. The type of fixed-price declaration to be added will provide more transparent price choices. Buyers and sellers could trade at closing prices in the market or weighted average prices based on intra-day trading volume, which will meet the needs of investors, especially institutional investors, for further enhancing transparency and fairness of block trading.   3. The time interval for handling declarations for successful block trading is prolonged. With an aim to meet the requirement of investors and gradually improve the market-oriented service of the SSE, time interval between 16:00 to 17:00 will be added on the base of the existing time intervals for block trading. During the new time interval, declarations of successful block trading can be handled, and the relevant transactions will enter the liquidation and settlement procedures on the next trading day.   4. The business rules of repayment of bonds on installments is perfected. In order to adapt to the development of the bond market, exceptional arrangements are made for face value of bonds, price unit and others. Besides, special sections are added to the “SSE Trading Rules” to regulate the business of repayment of bonds on installments and specify some issues such as the way of repayment on installments, price unit, trading unit, and ex-right treatment.   5. The maximum for single declared order of bonds in the auction system is elevated. In light of the increasing bond transactions, the current trading declarations cannot meet the requirement of market participants, especially institutional investors, so we should properly increase it. The maximum single declaration for trading of bonds and collateralized repo trading of bonds in the auction system is increased to 0.1 million lots, namely, RMB0.1 billion face value, from 10,000 lots, so as to meet the requirement of investors participating in spot trading and repo trading of bonds and increase the trading efficiency of the SSE’s bond market.   6. It is specified that the intra-day trading will be implemented for bond ETF products, exchange traded currency fund products, and gold ETF products. The intra-day trading is carried out for bond trading, and bond ETF products and exchange traded currency fund products mainly take bonds as the investment target, with the same trading attribute as that of bond trading. In addition, the intra-day trading is implemented for the futures and spot trading of gold, and the same trading arrangement needs to be made for gold ETF products. Therefore, the intra-day trading will be carried out for bond ETF products, exchange traded currency fund products, and gold ETF products. The fund units bought by investors can be sold on the very day.   Noticeably, some amendments, such as the newly-added type of declaration for block trading and the newly-added trading time interval after closing, cannot be implemented temporarily due to some issues including market business lines and technical preparations. It is predicted that they will be implemented after relevant technical development and testing are completed in April 2014.   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE When-Issued Trading of Treasury Bonds Debuts
11 Oct 2013
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) launched when-issued trading of treasury bonds on October 10, which means the SSE will become the first market launching when-issued trading of treasury bonds in China. This will also be regarded as one of the SSE’s significant measures for innovation on the bonds market in 2013.   On its first listing day, the trend of the yield rate of when-issued trading of treasury bonds matched closely with that of the 7-year benchmark treasury bonds, with 3.99% at opening, 4.00% at maximum, 3.99% at minimum, and 4.00% at closing, a slight rise of 0.8 base point compared with the listing benchmark price (3.992%). Judged from its market performance on the very day, price trend for when-issued trading of treasury bonds is steady, with its bid-ask spread keeping within 1 base point, much less than that of treasury bonds with the same bond term. With investors’ reasonable trading and active participation of institutional investors, a total of 162,000 lots with a turnover of RMB0.162 billion were achieved on that day.   When-issued trading of treasury bonds refers to the behavior of trading within a specific period before formal bidding and issuing of treasury bonds, agreeing to carry out delivery and settlement of funds and treasury bonds at the agreed price after treasury bonds bidding by both trading sides. According to overseas experience, as an important supporting measure for improving the system of marketized treasury bonds issuance in the progress of interest rates liberalization of overseas countries, the business of when-issued trading of treasury bonds is quite common on mature markets.   Presently, the market-oriented issuance system of treasury bonds in China is under steady improvement. With expanding scale of the bonds market and active trading of bonds, a reform on liberalization of interest rates is being promoted steadily, and the demand for management on interest rates fluctuation of all market participants has been increasing. As a result, the SSE’s launching of when-issued trading of treasury bonds will facilitate building marketized issuance and pricing mechanisms, and it will be conducive to the price discovery function of the treasury bonds market. Besides, it will help better the issuance system for treasury bonds, give full play to the role of market benchmark of interest rates of treasury bonds, and propel the reform towards marketization of interest rates. In addition, it will contribute to lowering the risks in underwriting treasury bonds, and provide diversified anti-risk tools and means of assets allocation for financial institutions.   The “Business Measures on Trading, Registration and Settlement of Pre-issuance (Trial) of Treasury Bonds of SSE and CSDCC” was released on September 27. This time, the business of when-issued trading of treasury bonds gives full play to the SSE’s features and advantages in the bonds market by adopting auction trading, net settlement, T+0 intra-day trading, and others in designing of trading rules. Further, regarding measures for risk control, the SSE takes an array of measures such as adopting investor suitability management, introducing price range control, putting upper limit for market scale, and implementing margin system and full information disclosure, in a bid to strengthen risk control over the business of when-issued trading of treasury bonds and ensure sound development of the when-issued trading of treasury bonds.   Developing the bonds market has been regarded as one of the SSE’s development strategies. Next, the SSE will vigorously propel the China Development Bank to issue bonds on its market, propel trading and transfer of write-down debts(debts with write-down feature) and securitized credit assets of commercial banks on the SSE, as well as other innovative measures. Moreover, the SSE will fully utilize its advantage in market transparency and facilitate cooperation and integration in the bonds market, with an aim to support development of the real economy.   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE Denies Rumor of Launching International Board through Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone
10 Oct 2013
As there is a rumor on the market that the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will launch an International Board through the Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone, it is recently learnt from the SSE that, it has neither considered nor studied launching any International Board through the Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone so far. Presently, no schedule for launching the International Board has been formulated yet. Source: Shanghai Securities News

Notice of Issuing “SSE Evaluation Measures (Trial) on Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure Work”
07 Oct 2013
To all listed companies and market participants, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the “SSE Evaluation Measures (Trial) on Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure Work” (the “Measures” for short), in order to meet new requirements for regulation of listed companies’ information disclosure in new situation, improve quality of listed companies’ information disclosure, and enhance transparency in regulation. The SSE hereby releases the “Measures”, which shall come into force from the date of its release. Attachments: 1. SSE Evaluation Measures (Trial) on Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure Work 2. Remarks on Drawing up “SSE Evaluation Measures (Trial) on Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure Work” Shanghai Stock Exchange October 7, 2013

SSE, CSDCC Q&A on “Pre-issuance (Trial) of Treasury Bonds”
27 Sep 2013
On September 26, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd. (CSDCC) released the “Business Measures on Trading, Registration and Settlement of Pre-issuance (Trial) of Treasury Bonds” (the “Measures” for short). The issue of the “Measures” indicated that China’s treasury bonds pre-issuance business is to be released soon. Officials of the SSE and CSDCC made a detailed introduction on the background and meaning of the release of the “Measures”, as well as its major content in an interview.   Q: Please tell us about the meaning and background of launching the business of pre-issuance of treasury bonds by the SSE and CSDCC.   A: Pre-issuance of treasury bonds means the bond trading with to-be-issued book-entry treasury bonds as the target, that is, the trading between the buyer and the seller in a specified period before the official bidding and issuing of treasury bonds and with the settlement of capital and treasury bonds at the set price after the official bidding. In light of overseas experience, the pre-issuance of treasury bonds is very common in mature markets, and it is an important supporting measure to improve the market-oriented issuance mechanism of treasury bonds in the process of interest rate marketization of each country.   The business of pre-issuance of treasury bonds has the following direct effects: first, it will help to improve the price-finding function of the treasury bonds market, thus facilitating the full display of the treasury bonds market’s functions; second, underwriters of treasury bonds can sell treasury bonds in advance, which will help them to confirm the subscription intention of clients, thus enhancing the accuracy of the treasury bonds bidding and reducing the risks taken by the underwriters; third, investors can indirectly participate in the treasury bonds issuance so as to lock in investment income in advance.   In recent years, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) has actively promoted the pre-issuance of treasury bonds and improved the market-oriented issuance mechanism of treasury bonds. The SSE and CSDCC have kept close contact with relevant departments of the MOF, and they have begun to research for the pre-issuance plan of treasury bonds since the first half of last year. On March 22, 2013, the MOF, the People’s Bank of China (PBC), and the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) jointly released the “Notice on Trial Pre-issuance of Treasury Bonds”, which specified basic principles of the pre-issuance business of treasury bonds. On July 8, the MOF, the PBC, and the CSRC jointly released the “Notice on Trial Pre-issuance of 7-year Treasury Bonds”, which made clear that the 7-year treasury bonds is the first type of bonds engaged in trial pre-issuance. The “Measures”, jointly drafted by the SSE and CSDCC, has been formally released after being approved by the CSRC and the MOF, which marks that the SSE market has made preparations at the rule level, and it is ready to launch the pre-issuance business at any time.   Q: What are the major characteristics of the pre-issuance of treasury bonds launched by the SSE and CSDCC?   A: The “Notice on Trial Pre-issuance of Treasury Bonds” jointly released by the MOF, the PBC, and the CSRC has specified the basic framework of the pre-issuance business, such as time, participants, clearing, and settling principles. When designing the pre-issuance scheme, the SSE and CSDCC have widely solicited market opinions under the above-mentioned basic framework and given full play to the characteristics and advantages of the bonds market of the exchange, such as auction trading, net settlement, and T+0 intraday trading, which have all been reflected in the pre-issuance business of treasury bonds to be released soon. The SSE and CSDCC expect to establish a pre-issuing market with better liquidity and good price-finding function for benchmark treasury bonds, thus serving issuers, underwriters, and investors.   Q: What are the specific requirements for investors to access the pre-issuance of treasury bonds?   A: As the business of pre-issuance of treasury bonds adopts margin trading, it possesses characteristics of leverage trading and has relatively higher risks than the spot trading of general treasury bonds. To ensure the controllability of the trading risks of the pre-issuance of treasury bonds, the “Measures” has restricted the participants of the pre-issuance business to the following two kinds of investors: first, the securities companies, banks, fund management companies, insurance companies, and other financial institutions engaging in the SSE’s bond trading; second, other professional investors conforming to the relevant rules of the “SSE Provisional Measures for Investor Suitability Management of Bond Market”. At the same time, the “Measures” stipulates that only members of underwriter teams can conduct net selling in the pre-issuance of treasury bonds, and ordinary professional investors cannot do so, that is, they can only first buy in and then sell out. Besides, the application unit for the trading of pre-issuance of treasury bonds should be 1,000 lots (with the face value of RMB1 million) or its integral multiples. Setting such a high threshold is to ensure the stronger risk-bearing capacity of participants.   Q: In what specific ways can the participants engage in the pre-issuance of treasury bonds?   A: Market participants possessing or renting the “Participants Business Units” of the SSE can get access to the SSE’s trading system to engage in the pre-issuance of treasury bonds in the following two ways – through the system interface and through the client site. All market participants should download and install the EzSTEP order-related software from the trading-related technical support zone of the SSE's website (www.sse.com.cn), and those who need the client software can download and install the latest one released by the SSE from the SSE website. Before the formal trading, market participants should make preparations in accordance with the scheme for special test on pre-issuance of treasury bonds and the relevant technology documents and notices of tests, arrange special persons to take in charge of testing, and pass the tests according to the test scheme, as well as report the test result. Participants can consult the SSE about test matters of the pre-issuance through the phone number (021-68817667) and the e-mail (bxzheng@sse.com.cn). Other investors should entrust securities companies with participating in the trading of the pre-issuance.   Before conducting trading of the pre-issuance of treasury bonds, each settlement participant should ensure that they have opened accounts of spread margins at Shanghai Branch of CSDCC. Any failure in margins settlement due to not opening accounts for spread margins in time will be recorded and referred to in assessing settlement participants’ performance in settlement business. For more details on opening an account, please contact the Settlement Department of CSDCC Shanghai Branch. Contact person: He Zhonghui (021-38874800-8527).   Some market quotes software providers have integrated the trading quotations of treasury bonds pre-issuance into their quotation software products and investors can check the relevant market conditions of the pre-issuance of treasury bonds through such market quotes software product as the “Great Wisdom”.   Q: Are there other specific measures to control the risks of the pre-issuance business of treasury bonds?   A: Apart from investor suitability, the pre-issuance of treasury bonds will adopt the following measures to ensure that the risks are within control. First, introducing the price range control, that is, in terms of price declaration, the trading price cannot exceed RMB3 above or below the theoretically-estimated value of the very phase of treasury bonds; and in terms of yield rate declaration, the rate of return cannot exceed 75 BPs above or below the yield to maturity of the very phase of treasury bonds, which can avoid the trading of treasury bonds pre-issuance largely deviating from the reasonable standard scale. Second, setting the upper limit of market scale. The net selling volume of class-A members and class-B members of underwriter teams of treasury bonds cannot exceed by 6% and 1.5% respectively of the planned issuance amount of the very phase of treasury bonds. If the net selling balance of the market reaches 60% (the initial issuance of treasury bonds) or 100% (the continuous issuance of treasury bonds) of the planned issuance amount of the very phase of treasury bonds, the SSE can suspend the receiving of the net selling applications of the underwriting team’s members. Third, implementing the margin system. CSDCC takes the security account as the accounting unit and charges the participants for surety bond and spread margin according to the accumulative single-sided positions and the closed positions. During the trial period, the proportion of surety bond is temporarily fixed to be 10% to prevent the performance risks. Fourth, ensuring full information disclosure. During the pre-issuance of treasury bonds, the SSE will timely disclose the net selling circumstances of the pre-issuance trading of all the domestic markets at the end of each day for the convenience of market participants to control risks by themselves.   Q: Is there anything that requires special attention of the market participants in terms of the clearing and settlement of the pre-issuance of treasury bonds?   A: CSDCC implements the netting settlement system based on real bond settlement in the pre-issuance trading of treasury bonds. During the pre-issuance trading period, CSDCC will conduct clearing of treasury bonds for the trading of the pre-issuance every day but will not carry out capital clearing. On the treasury bonds bidding day, CSDCC, as a common counter party, will provide the multilateral netting settlement service based on real bond settlement for the trading of the pre-issuance.   If members of the underwriting team of treasury bonds achieve net selling in the pre-issuance of treasury bonds but have no enough treasury bonds for delivery due to the insufficient final bidding amount, the spread will be settled by cash. Besides, members of the underwriting team of treasury bonds with insufficient settlement will pay a certain amount of additional compensation to their counter parties. Judging from the opinions solicited from the markets, all market parties generally have a higher acceptance for the standard of charging 1‰ of the part not enough for settlement as the compensation for the 7-year treasury bonds. Therefore, it is planned to charge the compensation according to 1‰ of the face value of the part not enough for settlement. The SSE and CSDCC can adjust the compensation standard in accordance with the terms of different types of pre-issued treasury bonds and the market situations.   Q: When will the SSE launch the business of pre-issuance of treasury bonds?   A: According to the relevant requirements of the MOF, the PBC, and the CSRC, the 7-year treasury bonds will be the first bond type for the trial pre-issuance business. In accordance with the bond issuance plan released by the MOF at the beginning of this year, the 7-year key-period treasury bonds will be issued once a month, with the new issuance in the first month of a season and the continuous issuance in the following two months. The SSE and CSDCC plan to take the 7-year treasury to be bidden and issued on October 16, 2013 as the first type of trial bonds for the trading of the pre-issuance. That is, the pre-issuance of treasury bonds is planned to be launched on October 10, 2013.   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

Notice on Releasing “Business Measures on Trading, Registration and Settlement of Pre-issuance (Trial) of Treasury Bonds of SSE and CSDCC” and Relevant Issues
26 Sep 2013
All market participants and settlement participants,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd. (CSDCC) have jointly formulated the “Business Measures on Trading, Registration and Settlement of Pre-issuance (Trial) of Treasury Bonds of SSE and CSDCC” (the “Measures” for short). Upon approval from the Ministry of Finance of the PRC and the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the SSE hereby promulgates the “Measures” and notifies relevant issues as follows:   First, block trading of pre-issuance of treasury bonds stipulated in Article 9 of the “Measures” will not be implemented presently. Time for its implementation will be further notified by the SSE and CSDCC.   Second, proportion of surety bond for trading of pre-issuance of treasury bonds stipulated in Article 20 of the “Measures” is temporarily fixed to be 10%, while compensation standard for insufficient part in securities settlement is temporarily fixed to be 1‰ of the face value of the insufficient part of the securities, according to Article 33 in the “Measures”.   Third, code segment of trading of pre-issuance of treasury bonds is 751800-751819, and these codes can be used repeatedly. Code segment of trading of pre-issuance of the treasury bonds issued by way of tendering of interest rate is 751800-751809, while that of trading of pre-issuance of treasury bonds issued by way of tendering of price is 751810-751819.   Fourth, trading of pre-issuance of treasury bonds will adopt the trading method of price bidding, with 09:15 to 09:25 of each trading day as time for open call auction, and 09:30 to 11:30 and 13:00 to 15:00 of each trading day as time for continuous auction.   Fifth, before trading of pre-issuance of treasury bonds, market participants should download and install order-related software from the SSE's website. Market participants should also download and install the latest client software if needed. Besides, before conducting trading of pre-issuance of treasury bonds, market participants should get prepared according to the scheme for special test on pre-issuance of treasury bonds, as well as relevant technology documents and notices of tests, arrange special persons to take in charge of testing, and pass the tests according to the test scheme, as well as report the test result.   Market participants should take measures to ensure that, net buying balance of each participant should not exceed 6% of the amount of the present issuance plan of the current phase of treasury bonds.   Sixth, before conducting trading of pre-issuance of treasury bonds, settlement participants should ensure that they have opened accounts of spread margins at Shanghai Branch of CSDCC. Any failure in margins settlement due to not opening accounts for spread margins in time will be recorded and referred to in assessing settlement participants’ performance in settlement business.   Seventh, before accepting the entrusted business of trading of pre-issuance of treasury bonds, securities companies should ensure that investors are equipped with the qualification as professional investors in the bonds market of the SSE. Moreover, securities companies should properly conduct the work of publicity and notify the risks for the investors, in addition to requiring investors to sign the letter of risk-revealing, in a bid to strictly control relevant risks in the business of trading of pre-issuance of treasury bonds.   Eighthly, members of underwriter teams should submit to the SSE the planned over-the-counter distribution amount of the current phase of treasury bonds on the SSE market before 12:30 on the treasury bonds bidding day when they conduct trading of pre-issuance of treasury bonds.   Ninth, standard of handling fee for trading of pre-issuance of treasury bonds is implemented with reference to the fee of treasury bonds trading. Temporarily, no handling fee of trading of pre-issuance of treasury bonds is charged during the period of soft operation.   Tenth, market participants and settlement participants should immediately report any abnormal situations to the SSE and CSDCC in the process of carrying out trading of pre-issuance of treasury bonds. The assigned department for contact of the SSE is the SSE Bond Market Department and that of CSDCC is the Business Development Department of CSDCC Shanghai Branch.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. 　　September 26, 2013

Notice of Soliciting Public Opinions on “SSE Measures (Trial) for Assessment of Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure (Draft Version)”
18 Sep 2013
All market participants:   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (the SSE) has improved the assessment system of listed companies’ information disclosure and formulated the “SSE Measures (Trial) for Assessment of Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure (Draft Version)” (the “Measures” for short) and the remarks on its drafting (see Attachments 1 and 2), in order to meet the new situation in regulating listed companies’ information disclosure after implementation of the direct channel for information disclosure, enhance transparency in regulation, and improve the quality of listed companies’ information disclosure.   After the implementation of the “Measures”, the SSE will issue its opinions on cases involving mergers, acquisitions, and reorganizations within its range of responsibilities, according to the result of assessment of listed companies’ information disclosure. The SSE hereby solicits opinions on the “Measures” from the public.   Please send your opinions or suggestions on the “Measures” to the SSE in written form or by e-mail before September 27, 2013.   　　Fax: 021-68811782 　　E-mail: listing@sse.com.cn 　　Mailing address: SSE Department I of Listed Companies Supervision, 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　September 18, 2013

SSE Publicizes Methods for Supervising Honest Practices
02 Sep 2013
Lately, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has publicized methods for supervising honest practices through its official websites and micro-blog, and major securities media. All sectors of the society can directly report to the Discipline Inspection and Supervision Department of the SSE about issues of the SSE staff’s honest practices by telephone, fax, e-mail, letter, and visit. The SSE has, on the basis of its external supervising system, improved and publicized the methods for supervising honest practices, in a bid to ensure a smooth channel for all walks of life, including investors, intermediary agencies, and listed companies, to supervise the SSE’s self-regulation and service, and reinforce social public supervision. The methods for supervising honest practices: Tel: 021-68827799 Fax: 021-68813188 E-mail: ljcyjd@sse.com.cn Address: 8/F, North Tower, No. 528, South Pudong Road, Shanghai, 200120 Publicizing the methods for supervising honest practices is an important measure for the SSE to keep its party members and cadres clean and upright. Since early July, the Party Committee of the SSE has held several symposiums to collect the opinions and suggestions of small and medium-sized investors, institutional investors, listed companies, member units, and the SSE’s party members and masses on the SSE’s supervision service as well as its reform and innovation. Members of the SSE Party Committee have also gone deep into the frontline market and visited listed companies and securities business departments to have face-to-face talks and listen to the insights from all aspects. The SSE has sent out over 1,100 letters to relevant units for soliciting opinions and received altogether 330 advices and suggestions through symposiums, visits, and letters. The SSE has also taken various measures to combat corruption and uphold integrity. For example, the SSE has reformed listed companies’ information disclosure system, built the direct channel for information disclosure, and transformed from prerequisite examination to aftermath regulation, which not only meets the requirements of the market-oriented reform of the supervising methods but also helps to prevent such corruptions as insider trading from the sources. Besides, the SSE has established the registration system for insiders of inside information to make an electronic registration for personnel dealing with inside information and strengthen the responsibility investigation. Furthermore, the SSE has strengthened its efforts on managing new products and business lines, publicized the procedures for its members and fund companies to apply for operating new products, implemented transparent regulation, and eliminated the discretionary power in regulation. With regard to its internal management, the SSE has focused on preventing commercial briberies in project construction and supplies purchase by regularly carrying out a special examination, and it has implemented such measures as “E-Tracking” and “Double Review” for operating systems. Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE Q&A on “Incident of Everbright Securities” on August 16
26 Aug 2013
Q1: Please tell us about the erroneous proprietary trading of Everbright Securities (Xie Weiqun, People’s Daily). A1: At about 11:05 am on August 16, the Shanghai Composite Index rose abruptly, heavyweight stocks such as PetroChina, Sinopec, ICBC, and BOC touched maximum trading limits. The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) immediately carried out emergency disposal and verification. From 11:05 to 14:19 when Everbright Securities issued an announcement, the stock index’s dramatic fluctuation can be roughly divided into four stages. The first stage is from 11:05 to 11:07 when the Shanghai Composite Index rose by 5.96% in a short time (compared to the previous closing, the same below). The second stage is from 11:07 to 11:15 when the index fell from 2,198 to 2,103, increasing by 1.01%. The third stage is from 11:15 to 11:30 when the index rose from 2,103 to 2148, increasing by 3.19%. The fourth stage is from 13:00 to 14:19 when Everbright Securities issued an announcement and the index fell from 2,148 to 2,082, increasing by 0.01% over the previous day. During that time, a large number of rumors were spreading in the market. The rumors mainly fell into three categories: some say there is good news such as universal banking, the introduction of preferred shares, the implementation of T +0 transaction, and the position-opening of foreign exchange funds of China Investment Corporation; some say the trading system and quotes system of the exchange have malfunctioned; and others say there is fat finger, which is quite complicated. After 11:05, the SSE market monitoring system issued an alert on cumulative increase, and dozens of such alerts had been issued until 11:07. Real-time monitoring staff found in the analysis that the largest buyer of stocks is a proprietary account of Everbright Securities. We immediately contacted with Everbright Securities and asked them to give us a report on the situation. Later, the verification showed that: from 11:05 am to 11:07, the proprietary account declared thousands of market orders, each one of which had 100 shares to 996.9 thousand shares, with a turnover of over RMB7 billion. Whether it is the order price or the number of orders, each purchase order of Everbright Securities conformed to the “SSE Trading Rules”. And all the orders declared by Everbright Securities in a short time used the market order of “Order for instant transaction at the best five prices with remaining being cancelled”. The SSE surveillance department inquired Everbright Securities about the situation. After that, the SSE member management department and the SSE regulation department for listed companies demanded and repeatedly urged Everbright Securities to identify the situation as soon as possible and fulfill the obligation of information disclosure. SSE clarified the rumor and said that “so far the SSE systems are functioning properly” on its official micro-blog at 11:44 after an examination on its trading system and quotes system and confirmed no fault. Meanwhile, the SSE launched the cross-market regulatory process for abnormal transactions with the China Financial Futures Exchange, and discussed the settlement issues with Shanghai Branch of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. At noon, Everbright Securities, a listed company, said that the erroneous trade might be caused by the malfunction of its proprietary trading system, and applied for trading suspension. According to the “SSE Share Listing Rules”, the SSE suspended trading of Everbright Securities in the very afternoon, and repeatedly asked the company to act as the statutory information discloser to issue an announcement and clarify the incident as soon as possible. At 14:19, Everbright Securities made an announcement on the incident and the reasons for it. Q2: “What regulatory measures were taken by the SSE in the incident?” (Zhang Xueqin from Tencent.com, Wang Xiao from Sina.com, Han Yizhong from Shanghai Morning Post, Chang Liang from 21st Century Business Herald, Cai Jun from Moneyweek, Hu Qing from Shanghai Great Wisdom, Wang Tao from Nanfang Daily, and Cao Wei from 10JQKA.com.cn.) A2: The SSE successively took the following measures according to laws and regulations after the incident on August 16, 2013 (Friday). At 11:06, after warning of the SSE’s market surveillance system and upon inquiry on the system, the SSE first detected abnormal transactions in the proprietary account of Everbright Securities. At 11:07, the SSE’s market surveillance department contacted people including heads of Everbright Securities and its Compliance Supervisor as required by market surveillance. Relevant people either said that they were not in the company or they did not have enough information about the incident and needed further investigation. The SSE required the company to give reply as soon as possible. At 11:10, upon discussion by the SSE’s market surveillance department and the China Financial Futures Exchange (CFFEx), the SSE launched the cross-market regulatory process for abnormal transactions according to the stipulated mechanism of regulatory cooperation. At 11:15, as it was rumored that faults were found in the SSE’s trading system and quotes system, the SSE immediately initiated self-examination on its trading system and quotes system, and announced on its official micro-blog: “the SSE’s systems have been running normally” at 11:44. At 11:45, the SSE reminded Shanghai Branch of China Securities Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd. of the possible risks in clearing by phone. Later, both sides discussed on-site about relevant issues of settlement, in order to prevent from systematic risks resulted from settlement. At 11:45, the heads of relevant departments of the SSE called heads of information disclosure department, compliance department, and IT department of Everbright Securities to again require them to investigate upon causes of the incident and report relevant information on time. At 12:00, relevant heads of Everbright Securities called back and said that there may be something wrong with its strategy trading system, and specific problems were still under investigation. Later, the SSE made calls and texted messages to Secretary to Board of Directors and Representative of Securities Affairs of Everbright Securities to urge them to conduct investigation, make an announcement as soon as possible, and consider about trading suspension. At 12:42, Everbright Securities applied for trading suspension of its shares for “Not having announced the significant event”. The SSE suspended trading of the company’s shares for half of the day according to the “SSE Share Listing Rules”, and required the company to release an announcement to explain the causes of the incident. The SSE later released information of trading suspension of shares in Everbright Securities for “not having announced the significant event” on its micro-blog and quotes terminal to the market. At 12:50, the SSE again called heads of Everbright Securities and urged them to announce relevant information before market opening in the afternoon. Later, heads of the SSE continued to urge the company to immediately issue an announcement, and explain the incident and its cause. At the same time, the SSE sent supervisors to Everbright Securities for more information. At 14:19, Everbright Securities released an announcement about the situation and cause of the incident on the SSE’s website, which was forwarded on the SSE’s official micro-blog. At 15:00, the SSE issued on its official micro-blog the information of “The SSE’s trading system is in sound operation and all transactions made will be cleared and settled in order” in response to the rumor that the abnormal transactions resulted from the incident of Everbright Securities would be canceled. At 15:23, Everbright Securities sent the SSE an email titled “Explanation on Abnormal Transactions of Everbright Securities for the ‘Liquidity Strategy’ of Its Strategy Investment Department on August 16”. Afternoon the day’s trading was closed, the SSE issued a “Letter of Supervision Alert” to Everbright Securities, requiring the company to further clarify the cause of the abnormal transactions and issue an announcement to the market before August 19. In addition, the SSE and the Shanghai Securities Regulatory Bureau organized a join inspection team to carry out on-site investigation on this incident. Q3: “Why didn’t the SSE take the measure of special market closure when detecting the abnormal trading?” (Xin Shanglun from Dongfang Daily) A3: The reason why the SSE did not take the measure of special market closure was due to considerations as follows: First, legal ground for special market closure in the incident is inadequate. Clause 1 of Article 114 in the “Securities Law” states exchanges may decide upon special market closure and report to the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). However, it is a rather general rule, whether it can be applied to the abnormal trading in the incident of Everbright Securities was not quite clear. Once the measure of special market closure is taken, the SSE may have to face questions such as inadequate grounds and unclear standards. Besides, according to the SSE’s rules on relevant business, the SSE should only take the measure of special market closure mainly in cases such as failure in starting trading or continuous trading, serious errors in trading results, or failure in completion of normal trading resulted from force majeure, accidents, or invasions to systems. The abnormal trading of Everbright Securities could hardly be counted as one of these situations. Second, market necessity for special market closure was not prominent. As is introduced before, abnormal fluctuations only lasted for a short period of time in the incident. Meanwhile, as rumors on the market varied, further investigation was required; therefore, the reason and necessity of special market closure were not found adequate. Besides, August 16 was a delivery day for stock index futures contracts, the measure of special market closure would greatly influence the futures market. Third, the SSE considered that overseas markets rarely take the measure of special market closure in similar cases. For example, the measure of special market closure was not taken in the incident of Mizuho Securities at the Tokyo Stock Exchange on December 8, 2005, the incident of Facebook at the NASDAQ Stock Market on May 18, 2012, and the incident of Knight Capital Group and the incident of Goldman Sachs at the New York Stock Exchange respectively on August 1, 2012 and August 20, 2013. The SSE have also noticed that overseas markets have clear prescription in situations, standards, and procedures for application of special market closure in response to great incidents, and are very careful in making the decision of special market closure. Since China established its capital market, the measure of special market closure has been taken in few cases, not even when the maximum decrease of big-cap reached 8.84% on February 27, 2007, the maximum increase of big-cap reached 9.60% on April 24, 2008, and the maximum decrease of big-cap reached 5.74% on June 25, 2013, respectively, and the Wenchuan earthquake struck on May 12, 2008 (The SSE and other 4 exchanges, having announced in advance, closed markets on May 19 for 3 minutes to moan the victims in the earthquake, according to the requirement of the State Council and the decision of the China Securities Regulatory Commission). In light of the rare incident of Everbright Securities, the SSE will further investigate and demonstrate the situations, standards, procedures, and other issues in taking the measure of special market closure. Q4: "Why didn't the SSE immediately issue any notice after the incident of Everbright Securities?" (Pan Qing from Xinhua News Agency, Wang Lu from Shanghai Securities News, Cheng Liangliang from China Business News, Zhang Zhong’an from Guangzhou Daily, Liu Chen from finance.sina.com.cn., Zhao Ting from money.163.com, and Zhu Ping from 21cbh.com.) A4: After the incident, according to its usual practice, the SSE did not take the initiative to issue any announcements. This inaction, compared to the NYSE’s alert announcement released after the erroneous orders of Goldman Sachs on August 20, elicited some doubts among the investors. As is introduced above, the alert information indicating the abnormal trading in the incident on the very day was the volume of cumulative increase in stocks. It was also noticed in follow-up analysis and by the market that the quantity of orders in the proprietary account of Everbright Securities within 2 minutes was tremendous. However, each of these orders were within the range stipulated in the “SSE Trading Rules” in terms of price and quantity, and were thus accepted and approved by the system. Besides, all the large number of purchase orders of Everbright Securities this time used the market order of “order for instant transaction at the best five prices with the remaining being cancelled”, with no false orders withdrawn occurred. Given the practices in major markets, as erroneous prices of orders are comparatively easy to be detected, usually exchanges will make announcements in time in cases of “Fat Finger” trading of this kind. For example, in 2012 when technical failures occurred in the market making system of Knight Capital Group, one of the NYSE’s market maker, a large number of erroneous orders with purchase at high prices and sale at low ones were sent out, leading to great abnormal fluctuations of nearly 100 stocks and confusing price signals. As a result, the NYSE issued an announcement during intraday trading. In the recent incident of Goldman Sachs, as errors occurred in the company’s trading system, a lot of derivatives orders with wrong quotations were sent to the market, and relevant exchanges also released an intraday announcement. As for abnormal trading due to wrong order quantity, it is difficult for exchanges to tell whether they are real intended transactions or “Fat Finger” operations; therefore, in most cases like this, exchanges will not make special announcements. For example, in Taiwan’s Fubon Securities incident in 2005, some traders mistook the order of NTD80 million for NTD8 billion, in the case of which, the exchange did not issue any intraday announcement, neither did the Japanese exchange in the Mizuho Securities incident in 2005. As the responsible party in the abnormal trading, Everbright Securities in this incident is also one of the listed companies of the SSE and its members, which means Everbright Securities, as an obligator of information disclosure according to the "Securities Law", was obliged and informed enough to judge the nature of this incident and disclose relevant information to the public. Therefore, the SSE took the measure of repeatedly urging Everbright Securities to make an announcement, which was a regular and reliable regulation method. In view of alert and treatment of abnormal trading, the SSE’s real-time monitoring system reports an average of over 100 alerts involving the abnormal trading each day. A total of nearly 1,000 of these alerts are transferred to self-disciplinary regulation and investigation upon analysis of the real-time monitoring staff every year. As a self-disciplinary institution, the SSE is not entitled to mandatory administrative investigation, and it mainly investigates the nature of abnormal trading through inquiry on phone or by letter. When detecting behaviors violating the trading rules, the SSE will take the measures of self-disciplinary regulation; meanwhile, it will report cases involving illegal behaviors to the CSRC for further treatment. Besides, since 2008, a total of 90 trading days have seen intraday fluctuation of over 4% for the SSE Composite Index, of which 37 cases of fluctuation (a percentage of nearly 41%) were influenced by rumors or holding increase and selling of large-scale institutions, including some large fluctuations of the SSE Composite Index within several minutes. In such cases, it is hard for exchanges to conduct intraday investigation and nature determination, as well as make announcements as self-disciplinary institutions. Although the SSE made some preliminary judgment on the abnormal trading of Everbright Securities through analysis on system inquiry and phone investigation, as it requires a certain period of time for the exchange to investigate into the abnormal trading, and relevant rumors varied, the SSE did not grasp all-round situation in its informal investigation before the announcement made by Everbright Securities at 14:19 on the very day, and relevant evidences could neither be testified in such circumstances. At that time, it was difficult for the SSE to release any verified announcement. In fact, the SSE only received the written letter of confirmation of the incident from Everbright Securities after the market closed on the very day. Then, the announcement of Everbright Securities has been forwarded by the SSE and issued, thus no further announcements or comments were needed. This incident has made the SSE fully aware that, the market badly demands the exchange to make announcements on time to reduce information asymmetry. The SSE is facing a challenging task in meeting the requirements of the market to establish a system for the exchange to directly issue intraday announcements in cases of abnormal trading and great fluctuation, as well as explicit standards and procedures for information release, so as to avoid misjudgment, misguidance, and unfairness. Q5: Why didn’t the SSE cancel transactions? (Wang Dan from 21st Century Business Herald, Li Hui from Hexun.com, and Yang Lu from Caixin Media) A5: For the abnormal transaction of Everbright Securities, the SSE decided to maintain the transaction results by announcing that “all transactions made will be cleared and settled in order” to the market. It was a prudential decision based on comprehensive consideration of existing laws, market impact, and operational risk. First of all, from a legal perspective, Article 120 of the “Securities Law” provides that “the results of transactions conducted under transaction rules promulgated according to law shall not be changed”. Therefore, transactions completed under lawful rules shall not be cancelled. Although Everbright Securities submitted huge quantities of orders in a short while, all these orders complied with the trading rules; the SSE’s current business rules, in reference to legal provisions and overseas experience, lay provisions on cancelation of transactions under specific circumstances. However, the specific criteria and circumstances for transaction cancelation do not apply to the abnormal transaction of Everbright Securities. Second, the cancellation of transactions would have extensive impact. Although the investors who followed the suit to purchase would benefit, the investors who sold at high prices would suffer losses. Evidently, there would be strong oppositions to cancellation of the transactions. Third, in terms of actual operation, due to lack of precedents, it was difficult to determine the time and scope of transactions to be cancelled, and a lot of complicated operations would be involved. The resultant risk could not be ignored. Finally, according to the practice of major markets in dealing with “Fat Finger” incidents, most would adhere to the principle of “caveat emptor”. For example, in the Fubon Securities incident in Taiwan in 2005, the Mizuho Securities incident in Japan in 2005, and the Emkay incident on the Indian market in 2012, the transactions remained valid and buyers suffered due losses. Of course, there are instances of cancellation, too, mostly on the American market. However, cancellation must be based on prior laws, rules and standard operating procedure. For example, in the “US stock market’s flash-crash” in 2010 and the recent Goldman Sachs incident, transactions with conspicuous error were canceled under the relevant rules and standards predetermined by the stock exchange. We will seriously work on the regulations, rules, standards, procedure and business/technical arrangements for cancelling transactions under these circumstances. Q6: “Why didn’t the exchange exercise control over the number and amount of transactions of securities companies’ proprietary seats?” (Huang Ting from Securities Times and Luo Sanxiu from Financial World under Xinhua News Agency) A6: According to overseas experience, almost no exchanges lay front-end control over securities transactions, due to constraint of the market mechanism, the self-discipline and accountability of market participants (securities companies) and stringent subsequent accountability, as well as emphasis on efficiency. The market participants are only required to undertake delivery responsibility on the delivery date (usually T+3), otherwise they will be held accountable. This is the case in America, Europe, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, and Hong Kong. China’s securities market is different. To prevent market risk, front-end monitoring is adopted under the existing “Securities Law”, in addition to the signing of agency agreement between the securities company and investor clarifying their respective responsibilities and obligations, and independent risk control in proprietary business. With the primary securities account system, exchanges as well as securities depository & clearing companies grasp the investors’ securities data. Therefore, exchanges as well as securities depository & clearing companies add front-end control to the sale of securities. According to the existing “Securities Law”, investors’ funds are under third-party custody and distributed in different banks, and may be withdrawn at any time during transactions. The front-end control over securities purchase is exercised by securities companies and custodian banks that possess the investors’ fund information. Besides, securities depository & clearing companies have established the minimum settlement margin system requiring securities companies to deposit settlement margin and pay the fund in full amount on the day immediately after the transaction to complete transaction delivery. Therefore, the proprietary transactions of securities companies cannot be simply considered as “Excessive Purchase” or “Credit Transactions”. Over recent years, with steady progress in the risk control and compliance system of securities companies, operations have been standardized and steady in the entire sector, though it is still possible for securities companies to conduct transactions beyond their financial strength and regulatory requirements due to various factors, including system deficiency in the incident of Everbright Securities. High attention should be paid to these risks. Although our market supervision system has in place relevant transaction alert indicators and can timely identify abnormal transactions, we can only handle incidents after they occur instead of preventing them. Therefore, we will actively research and improve rules and procedures of front-end prevention and control over relevant risks to ensure transaction security and maintain market stability under the organization of regulatory authorities. Q7: “In recent years there have been ‘fat-finger’ incidents from time to time in overseas markets. Can you tell us how they have been resolved by the exchanges concerned?” (Zhou Songlin from China Securities Journal)　 A7: “‘Fat-finger’ is a colloquial term in securities markets. It generally refers to an incident in which the price, volume, and direction data of the orders are issued to the trading system without conforming to trading intentions, as a result of the trader’s operational error or a glitch in the technical system. According to which aspects of the orders go wrong, the ‘fat-finger’ errors can be categorized into price error, volume error and price and volume error. In terms of the causes, there are operational errors and technical ones.” In securities markets, “fat-finger” errors, huge or small, happen every day. It is only those large-scaled and influential cases that have caught our attention. Internationally, exchanges follow the securities laws, regulatory requirements and trading rules of their own countries in dealing with “fat-finger” trades. As countries have different law systems and exchanges’ different trading rules, there has not been yet a unified standard, and accordingly the resolutions differ. But on the whole, in their dealing with ‘fat-finger’ incidents that have frequently occurred in recent years, overseas exchanges take on the following features: First, except for the canceling of trades with obvious price errors that meet certain standards (of range or transaction amount etc.), most overseas exchanges do not easily invalidate trades. Most of them have the liable parties shoulder the losses on their own. Second, unless “fat-finger” trades have induced price volatilities that in turn trigger the “Market Circuit Breaker”, overseas exchanges do not usually hold the trading to a temporary halt. Third, it is comparatively difficult for the exchanges to put up intraday announcements when the volume-type “fat-finger” errors occur; but it is relatively easy to identify extreme price-type errors, as a result of which the exchanges are usually able to issue announcements in time. The following table presents the details： Summary of the incident Type of “fat-finger” errors Whetherexchanges made intraday announce-ments   Whether the trading was tempora-rily halted     After-incident settlement   On June 272005, a trader at Taiwan Fubon Securities acting as proxy for a foreign investor mistook an order of RMB80 million for 8 billion, and bought 282 stocks at the upper limit, causing Formosa Chemicals and several other stocks to surge, and the market up by nearly 1% within 8 minutes.   volume   No No   The trades were valid and the liable party undertook all responsibi-lities. On December 8, 2005, a trader at Mizuho Securities of Japan sold out 610,000 J-COM shares at 1 Japanese yen per share when he was supposed to have sold 1 J-COM share at 610,000 Japanese yen, thus plunging down the share price of J-COM.   Price and volume   No No   The trades were valid and the liable party undertook all responsibi-lities.  On May 6, 2010, an American fund company issued US$4.1 billion’s worth of program-trading short orders of S&P 500 Mini Index Futures within a short period. As a result, the NYSE suffered a “flash crash”. Down Jones Index plummeted within minutes, with the highest price drop of 9.2%, and then rebounded with equal speed. Eventually the market finished 3% down that day.   Volume   No No Canceled the trades with obvious errors ( with 60% off the reference price as the standard) On August 1 2012, the NYSE market maker Knight Capital issued a large number of “buy at the high, sell at the low” orders as a result of technical malfunctions in its market making system, giving rise to substantial abnormal volatilities in hundreds of stocks. Price Yes No Canceled the trades with obvious errors ( with 30% off the opening price as the standard)  On August 20 2013, owing to errors in its program trading systems, Goldman Sachs issued a large number of mispriced quotation orders of individual stocks options. Some of these options’ contract prices in CBOE, Nasdaq, and NYSE experienced great volatility as a result. Price Yes No Canceled the trades with obvious errors (identified by each exchange based on its own rules ) Q8: “Why has not the exchange instituted a ‘circuit breaker’ mechanism for the market and individual stocks? Is the exchange planning to establish one?” (Wang Lu from Shanghai Securities News, Zhang Peifeng from Tencent.com, Wu Linlin from Beijing Youth Daily, Huang Tao from China Business View, and Deng Yajing from Hexun.com) A8: A circuit breaker in a securities exchange refers to a mechanism that triggers interruption or halt of trading when the volatilities of the big-cap or individual stocks exceed pre-set standards. It can be further categorized into big-cap circuit breaker and individual stocks circuit breaker. Now adopted by some European and American markets, its primary function is to create a cooling-off period in the market, help investors assimilate market information, prevent extensive non-rational volatilities of the market or certain product, forestall a market slump or even crash and ultimately maintain the stability of the market. The circuit breaker mechanism was first introduced in the US, where the big-cap and individual stocks circuit breakers were instituted respectively in 1988 and 2010, and were modified again in 2012. At present, the market circuit breaker sets that when the S&P 500 Index is down 7% from the previous day, trading in all American securities markets will be suspended for 15 minutes. The individual stocks circuit breaker sets that when the prices of constituent stocks and other high-liquidity securities in S&P 500 fluctuate by more than 5%, the trading will be halted for 5 minutes; for those securities with opening, closing and market prices under US$3, and other securities with lower liquidity, the fluctuation range is extended at 10%. So far, China’s stock exchanges haven’t instituted any circuit breaker. Instead, we have established the price limit system. At present, Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges implement a 10% price limit, and every price limit declaration in securities trading comes with a “price cage” (a price fluctuation limit against current market prices). Besides, the market orders could only absorb orders within five levels of the current prices. Thus the system is conducive to preventing obvious order price errors, constraining to some extent dramatic price changes so that market stability could be achieved. On the whole, as the price limit is applied both to the market and to individual stocks, the circuit breaker may have only a limited role to play, for, judging from overseas experiences, stock cash markets usually choose between a price limit for the individual stocks and a circuit breaker for the market, but seldom both. However, in terms of providing a cooling-off period for the assimilation of market information, the circuit breaker is functional. On its functions, the SSE will carry out further research and investigation. Q9: How to deal with cross-market regulatory gaps and artificial inequality in arbitrage mechanism? (Pan Qing from Xinhua News Agency and Li Hui from Hexun.com) A9: Upon the official launching of index futures, the SSE, the China Financial Futures Exchange (CFFEX) and other institutions have established a number of cross-market, cash-to-futures joint regulatory mechanisms. Every month, we call regular meetings on cross-market regulatory cooperation to brief each other about market situations and efforts made in cross-market, cash-to-futures regulatory coordination. Every day after the markets close, we exchange summary data on institutional and individual trading. We have set up a “green path” to enhance our ability to discover and dispose of abnormal trades quickly. Besides, we provide each other with a list of key accounts at irregular intervals. As we can now spot, report and resolve in time any cross-market, cash-to-futures aberration, there isn’t really a regulatory “gap”. Take this incident for instance, the SSE established connection with the CFFEX at as early as 11:10, and triggered the cross-market regulation mechanism at once. The different trading mechanisms in futures and cash markets in China have long been a concern and an object of study. The recent Everbright Securities incident has set off again extensive discussion, most of which centers on the following aspects: One opinion believes that institutional investors can rapidly profit and flee by manipulating weighted stocks, while individual investors can’t. But the truth is, the real-time monitoring of substantial volatilities of intraday stock index indicates that by far no institutions have been found to profit and flee by pushing down the index. Another opinion holds that retail investors can only profit by stock price growth and T+1mechanism, and are powerless in face of a market decline, while in contrast, institutional investors could hedge risks and even make exorbitant profits by shorting futures index. We believe that this opinion is reasonable to some extent, but is not flawless. Without the eligibility mechanism of investors, futures index could bring greater risks to the ordinary investors. This incident has brought the market to a greater consensus of speeding up the implementation of the “T+0” mechanism so as to reduce risks resulting from the lack of error correction means. For one thing, China’s cash and futures markets have different trading mechanisms. The cash markets implement “T+1’ while the futures markets “T+0”. Individual investors are the major players in stock markets, but the stocks they buy can not be sold at “T+0”. On the contrary, futures markets are mainly comprised of big investors and institutional clients，who are allowed to sell futures contracts on the same day they are bought. It means that when there are abnormal volatilities in stock markets and the index declines sharply, a large number of individual investors can not sell the stocks they buy on the same day, and therefore can not avoid the risks, while big investors and institutional investors could hedge the risks in the stock market through the futures market. For another, the stock market can realize “T+0” indirectly by the ETF purchase and redemption mechanism. Big investors and institutional investors with financial strength can sell wrongly purchased stocks by exchanging a basket of stocks for ETF. But with insufficient capital to cross the threshold, retail investors are not equipped with “T+0” risk hedging tools, and thus find it difficult to rectify their mistakes after following suit in buying. To protect the rights and interests of medium and small investors and to ensure market justice, we believe that it is essential that we speed up our research and investigation on “T+0” trading mechanism. Q10: Why has not the exchange instituted any pre-warning mechanism for obviously abnormal order report activities? (Wu Ming from The Beijing News, Li Zhongyuan at PhoenixNet Securites, and Wang Yiming from National Business Daily) A10: At present, the trading facilities the SSE supplies for securities companies mainly include the Participant Business Unit ( or ‘PBU’, which is similar to Trading Seat in early floor trading) and the front-end order machine in the order gateway. Both the securities companies’ proprietary trading orders and the investors’ orders are brought into the PBU and arrive at the host computer of the exchange through the order gateway for order matching. There are now about 1,000 order machines in the whole market that support almost 10,000 PBUs, providing services to nearly 0.1 billion investor accounts. In fact, just because the proprietary trading orders and brokerage orders of the securities companies go through the PBU and offer machine to the host computer in a “mixture”, it is difficult at the moment to tell them apart order at the level of front-end control. Take the incident of Everbright Securities as an example. The strategy trading department of Everbright Securities used a program-trading system that generated thousands of continuous orders, with the amount of each order within the normal report range. Although the trading system concluded RMB7 billion’s worth of orders within 2 minutes, involving thousands of orders, in effect it would be of no much difference from the scenario where 100 thousand clients of Everbright Securities reports one order of RMB70 thousand. What’s more, unlike the established markets overseas that mainly comprise of institutional investors, the China’s securities market has always been more about medium and small investors since the very beginning. That is largely why the SSE turned down the paper and gesture trading modes that were popular in the NYSE and other established exchanges overseas at the time it was founded in 1990. In fact, the listed companies of the NYSE have only 20% of their trades concluded through host computer matching while the majority of trades are completed in the trading systems of securities companies. The NYSE and other overseas exchanges have only to deal with several thousand securities companies and other institutional investor accounts, while the medium and small investors report and conclude trades in the trading systems. In contrast, the host computers of China’s exchanges have to handle almost 100 million investor accounts. Veteran investors should have no difficulties recalling a then much hated term at the fledgling stage of the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange: “Trading Block”. It was also the biggest technical hazard facing the exchanges at that time. Although the SSE has invested much more in the construction of trading systems than established exchanges overseas, it still remains our most important technical objective to ensure the stability, security and high efficiency of trading systems. The incident of Everbright Securities has brought in new requirements for the SSE from every quarter of the market. As a next step, the SSE will carry out meticulous research and investigation on the feasibility of front-end pre-warning mechanisms, and in light of the market trait that centers on small and medium-sized investors strike a balance between the stability, security and operation efficiency of the trading system. We will employ constantly advanced technologies and endeavor to meet the new requirements the developing markets make of us. Q11: “Did Everbright Securities ever sell stocks through ETF from August 19 to 23?” (Zhou Songlin from China Securities Journal, Wang Lu at Shanghai Securities News, and Xu Jingjing from Securities Times) A11: Everbright Securities promised before the market opened on August 19 that it would not reduce the holding of stocks it bought in the incident of Everbright Securities. Since then, the SSE has been intensively monitoring related securities accounts of the company. Up to the closing of August 23 (last Friday), no activities of reduction had been found in related accounts including selling stocks, or purchasing ETF shares with stocks or other disguised activities of reduction. As a next step, the SSE will continue the close monitoring of related accounts and urge the company to fulfill its promises. Once the company is found to go against its words, the SSE will take appropriate regulatory measures. As an essential component of the securities market system, securities exchanges take on three fundamental functions, i.e. to provide venues and facilities for securities trading, to organize and regulate securities trading, and to self-regulate member companies and listed companies. In dealing with the incident of Everbright Securities, the SSE has taken proper self-regulatory measures in time and in accordance with its duties and the law. To this each quarter of the market has paid much attention. Some have made positive comments, some have expressed their doubts and some have given very good suggestions. All this has helped us to better perform our duties and maintain the healthy and steady development of the market. In light of the advice and suggestions of the market, the SSE has given thoughts to its operations and regulations and has come up with some better understandings: First, the market operations of the exchange should be guided by laws and rules, which are the foundations of all operations, and which should dictate what can be done and what can not. For example, the Trading Rules of the SSE describe 13 abnormal trading behaviors in Rules 6.1, 6.3, and 6.5, including frequent order cancellation report, large position report and continuous trading of large volumes within a period etc. It requires that the exchange especially monitor these behaviors, carry out on-site or off-site investigations, and take regulatory measures such as oral or written warning, interrogation, or trade restriction etc. if serious cases have been confirmed. Another example, The “Securities Law” has rather explicit injunctions about trade cancellation. Exchanges implementing trade cancellation might incur substantial doubts about its legitimacy. As for information disclosure, relevant parties and listed companies should take on legal responsibilities and disclose information to the market in time. Second, the market order of the exchange could be achieved only when each party of the market has fulfilled their functions. Securities trading involves investors, securities companies, custodian banks, exchanges, clearing companies and others, each entity of which takes on different roles. For example, the exchanges are responsible for front-end examination of securities selling, while the securities companies are in charge of front-end examination of securities buying. If one party fails to perform, the market might be swamped down in chaos. Hence the orderly operation of the market demands that each and every party does his work. “So give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's”. No one meddles in another’s affairs and no role should be unfulfilled. Third, the market regulation of the exchange is ensured by strengthening after-event accountability investigation. Determined by the special traits of our market, it is essential for the exchanges to carry out necessary front-office control in order to guarantee safe operations and maintain trading orders. But strict after-event responsibility investigation that gets the law and rule breakers to pay are the fundamental safeguard of regulations by the exchange. Otherwise, the self-regulation of the exchange is a mouth without teeth: powerless and non-intimidating. With the rapid development of trading technologies and increasing complexity of market products goes up the difficulty of front-office controls by the exchange, and the importance of intensifying after-event accountability investigation. Fourth, the market development of the exchange should be aimed at a balance of security and efficiency. Efficiency and security has been an eternal theme in securities markets. Influenced by the market’s developmental stages, investor structures, technical levels and even contingent events, securities markets may lean to efficiency at some time and to security at another. Thus exchanges as the regulators should try to strike a balance between the two. For instance, when deliberating on whether or not to temporarily halt the trading, exchanges should take into consideration a variety of factors especially the situations on all sides at the moment the event breaks out, before making a decision in discretion. With the fast growth of securities market in China, new businesses, circumstances and problems are appearing all the time demanding the constant improvement of the regulations by exchanges. The incident of Everbright Securities has been the first extreme case since the establishment of the capital market in China. It has brought about many new issues in market development and regulation, and relevant quarters of the market have provided us with plenty of good advice and suggestions. We will take pains to study, digest and absorb them. The SSE will further improve and strengthen front-line regulation and constantly perfect regulation systems and rules. We will enhance risk control measures, and ensure the safe, efficient and normative operation of the market. Meanwhile we hope you all continue to care for and support our work. Thank you very much. SSE’s official micro-blog at Sina: http://e.weibo.com/chinasse SSE’s official micro-blog at Tencent: http://e.t.qq.com/sse

SSE and CSI Urbanization Indices To Be Launched
02 Aug 2013
Designed to serve as new benchmarks and investable underlyings for investors, today SSE and CSI announced the upcoming launch of SSE and CSI Urbanization Indices on August 26th 2013. Regarding the methodologies and more details about the above indices, please refer to the official website of SSE（www.sse.com.cn）and CSI (www.csindex.com.cn).   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 　　August 2nd 2013   　　SSE Urbanization Indices Methodology   　　CSI Urbanization Indices Methodology   　　Constituents Lists

SSE Medium Term Medium-High Yield Cross Market Credit Bond Index To Be Launched
10 Jul 2013
Designed to serve as new investable benchmarks for bond investors as well as to promote innovation of China bond market, CSI today announced the upcoming launch of SSE Medium Term Medium-High Yield Cross Market Credit Bond Index on Aug 1st 2013. The base date of this index is December 31st, 2008. The base indexes are all 100.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　China Securities Index Co., Ltd 　　2013-7-10   SSE Medium Term Medium-High Yield Cross Market Credit Bond Index Methodology Constituents List

SSE E-interaction Platform Opened to Facilitate Communication of Investors, Listed Companies
06 Jul 2013
The e-interaction platform of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) embraced its soft opening on July 5, 2013. As a communication platform available to all market participants for free, the e-interaction platform, with the participation of all sides, is also the first “Social Platform” of the securities market built up by the SSE. It will not only facilitate the “Zero-gap” contact between listed companies and investors, but also provide an innovative “Foothold” for the SSE’s market-oriented regulation.   “Zero-gap” Communication   The SSE e-interaction platform realizes the “Zero-gap” communication for investors and listed companies through building a channel for direct exchange between the two sides. This is a significant move to ensure small and medium-sized investors’ rights to be informed and to participate.   With the development of the securities market and the increasingly complicated investment environment in all these years, small and medium-sized investors’ needs to keep effective and constant communication with listed companies, in addition to information disclosure according to law, have been rising steadily. As for listed companies, the e-interaction platform will also help them to get timely messages about investors’ needs for information and public opinions online before taking prompt actions. Cases of short selling upon negative news are dramatically emerging especially in the recent period. If timely information exchange between listed companies and investors fails, accidents will be very liable to occur, thus providing opportunities for short-sellers to bring factors of instability to the whole market by taking advantage of lopsided information.   In light of the aforesaid claims, the SSE e-interaction platform will effectively connect investors and listed companies. With the help of the platform, investors will no longer remain to be passive receivers of information announced by listed companies; instead, they can directly get answers or information needed from listed companies through the basic services and a variety of business innovations on the platform. On the other hand, listed companies may also explain the disclosed issues in lucid words through the platform, thus helping investors to get an all-round understanding of the relevant information.   The SSE e-interaction platform has provided an array of services for investors. Before registration, investors may surf websites, search for information, and forward on third party platforms (such as Sina Micro-blog or Tencent Micro-blog) through the e-interaction platform. As for registered investors, the platform provides more services and functions including following other users on the platform, automatically receiving latest information about those followed, putting forward consultations and suggestions to listed companies as well as reviewing their feedbacks at any time, and participating in online interviews.   Compared with the traditional interaction businesses, the SSE e-interaction platform offers more “novelties” for iPhone/Android handphone and iPad, and Wechat (a service provided by Tencent). Besides, the platform has also added various forms of information releases and content exchanges including “Interaction Observers”, “SSE E-interviews”, “Online Briefing”, as well as “SSE's Releases” and “Listed Companies’ Releases”, so that investors can raise questions to listed companies at any time on their computers or handphones, and get information from the multiple “Outlets” offered by the platform.   Three Points to Guide Rational Investment   In fact, not only does the SSE E-interaction Platform set up a channel for communication but also represents the innovation in three aspects, namely, inviting and introducing some analysts and media reporters to publish comments and ideas and share research results independently as “Interaction Observers”, requiring listed companies to collect and release the surveys of institutions, the interviews of the media, and other Q&A records every month, and setting the activity section of “SSE E-interview” to regularly interview specially invited guests such as executives of listed companies, analysts or industry experts as well as investors with significant research results on the platform.   By introducing the participation of all the securities market players, the platform will promote the “brainstorm” and give full play to the role of self-education and mutual education among the users of the platform, so as to enable the small and medium-sized investors to learn about the questions concerned by institutions and the professionals’ ways of studying companies more through specific events and real cases, instead of the traditional "preaching", as well as be unconsciously influenced and guided in forming the habit of rational investment, instead of blindness, speculation and hyping, and improving the ability of making investment decisions through more studying, researching, and comparing.   In addition, the platform has set up the special network for the 954 SSE-listed companies providing the companies’ data such as company profiles, announcements, dividend distribution and allotment of shares, as well as the market information while encouraging the listed companies to take the initiative to disclose the information below the standards of legal disclosure on the platform and opening the road show center to encourage the companies to regularly hold the briefings for performance and other issues, which will also provide investors with abundant information and a convenient channel for learning about the companies, analyzing the companies, and taking rational participation.   Significant Initiative in Exploring Market-oriented Regulation   The SSE e-interaction platform is an innovation as well as a “Measure” of the SSE in exploring the market-oriented regulatory modes and developing the all-people oversight mechanisms. After the official implementation of the SSE direct channel for information disclosure, the regulators of the SSE have centralized and integrated the regulatory resources and changed the focus to the “Aftermath Regulation”. The interaction information between investors and listed companies on the platform will help the regulators of the SSE to timely learn about the market responses, the issues concerned by investors, the questions occurring in surveys, and other issues, so as to enable the regulators to respond rapidly, select important clues for regulation, take relevant regulatory measures, and improve the effectiveness of regulation over companies. The platform is also an important part of the SSE’s efforts in transforming the regulatory concepts and shifting the regulatory modes.   It is worth noting that in recent years, while opening new channels of access to information, the micro-blog, Wechat, and other social media have also brought about the releasing of undisclosed information of listed companies, spreading rumors, and other irregularities. To avoid unfair information disclosure on the platform, the SSE has restricted the scope of information released on the platform by explicitly requiring listed companies not to release important undisclosed information on the platform.   Not long ago, the SSE issued the “Implementation Measures for Disciplinary Sanction and Regulatory Measures” in a bid to intensify the “In-process and Aftermath Regulation” and push forward the “Openness of Rules, Processes, and Results”. After launching the e-interaction platform, conducting the relevant work based on the above-mentioned rules and regulatory concepts, the SSE will seriously crack down on the listed companies leaking important undisclosed information and take regulatory measures and impose disciplinary sanctions according to the cases.   According to an official of the SSE, after getting the platform on line, the SSE will continue to improve the functions, innovate the interactive forms, and expand the scope of application, so as to enable more market players to make full use of the convenient communication channel. The SSE welcomes the market participants finding information, seeking convenience, achieving guidance, and receiving suggestions on the platform on the basis of their own demands. Adhering to the concept of “Equal Emphasis on Regulation and Service”, the SSE will provide all market players with more complete and more effective services.   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

Announcement of Adjusting Methodology of SSE Dividend Index and CSI Dividend Index
02 Jul 2013
Based on extensive market survey and upon examination by the committee of index experts, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. have decided to make the following adjustments to index rules of the SSE Dividend Index and CSI Dividend Index to meet the changes of the securities market:   1. The index Universe: Changed from "Daily average negotiable market cap, trading value in the past one year is ranked top 50% of Shanghai A shares or all the A shares” to “Daily average total market cap, trading value in the past one year is ranked top 80% of Shanghai A shares or all the A shares”.   2. Index Adjustment: Changed from "Daily average negotiable market cap, trading value in the past one year is ranked top 60% of Shanghai A shares or all the A shares” to “Daily average total market cap, trading value in the past one year is ranked top 90% of Shanghai A shares or all the A shares”.   3. Weighting method changed from adjusted market cap weighting to dividend yield weighting.   4. Other compiling methods remain unchanged.   The rules adjustment will take effect upon the next constituents' regular adjustment.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 　　July 2, 2013

Index Regular Review Schedule and Corporate Events Methodology Adjustment
02 Jul 2013
To satisfy the needs of securities market development and fully listen to the opinions of our index users, after approval by the Expert Committee, China Securities Index Co., Ltd. and Shanghai Stock Exchange decide to adjust the Index Regular Review Schedule and the Corporate Events Methodology.   1. The effective day of index regular review will be adjusted from the first trading day in January and July to the next trading day after the close of the second Friday in June and December.   2. Index constituents Corporate Events Methodology will be adjusted to Concentrated Implementation method instead of strictly according with the ex-right day or listing day.   – If the spin-off, dividends and rights issues corporation events lead to constituents shares change, the adjustment will be implemented on the ex-right day.   – For other corporation events, such as second offering and exercise of warrants, if the accumulated change of constituents shares is more than 5%, the adjustment will be implemented immediately. If the accumulated change of constituents shares is less than 5%, the adjustment will be implemented in the next regular review.   Index Regular Review Schedule adjustment will be implemented in the next index regular review in the second half of 2013. Corporate Events Methodology adjustment will be put into effect from December 16, 2013.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　China Securities Index Co., LTD 　　July 2, 2013

SSE to Open “Direct Channel” for Information Disclosure on July 1
28 Jun 2013
The regulation on information disclosure is not only the core of the regulation work of listed companies carried out by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), but also one of the fundamental parts for the regulatory system of the capital market. Xiao Gang, Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, said that regulatory authorities should further cement “In-process and Aftermath Regulation” and rationalize regulation tasks according to the requirement of vigorously promoting the transformation of functions put forward by the State Council. Adhering to the basic concept of “Relaxing Restriction and Strengthen Regulation” and striving to meet the requirements put forward by Chairman Xiao Gang, the SSE has propelled the transformation of its functions, boosted the innovation on regulatory concepts, and specified the relationship between prerequisite admittance and aftermath regulation, so as to change from “Prerequisite Examination” to “Aftermath Regulation” and improve the regulatory efficiency. The to-be-implemented direct channel for information disclosure results from the regulatory thought above.   I. The significance of implementing the direct channel   The direct channel for information disclosure: the SSE-listed companies register announcements and directly submit them to the SSE website and other designated media through the SSE electronic information disclosure system. Specifically, it has the following two meanings: first, the direct physical path for submitting announcements is built on the Internet; second, the SSE will not conduct prerequisite examination on the listed companies’ announcements, as the listed companies could directly disclose their announcements, which will go through the procedure of the SSE’s aftermath regulation later. In April 2012, the SSE started to launch the “Direct Channel” work. The direct channel for information disclosure will be open on July 1, 2013 as the preliminary work has been completed on the whole and all the relevant conditions have been mature after repeated brewing, considerate planning, meticulous preparations, and gradual advancement.   The implementation of the direct channel marks a significant transformation in the way of listed companies’ information disclosure and that of the SSE’s regulation, which contributes to making all the market players “fully responsible in their places” and optimizing the credit mechanism and responsibility system of the market. According to the “Securities Law” and the “SSE Stock Listing Rules”, every listed company, the obligor of information disclosure, should ensure the authenticity, accuracy, completeness of legally disclosed information. However, in consideration of preventing market risks preliminarily, the SSE has been conducting prerequisite examination on all kinds of information disclosed by the listed companies. The defect of prerequisite examination, namely the unclear duties, has emerged gradually and the replacement of the regulation with the examination also affects the SSE’s duties and function positioning, as the capital market unceasingly matures and the legal environment is continuously perfected. The implementation of the direct channel will contribute to on one hand reinforcing the role of the listed companies as the obligors of information disclosure, and on the other hand carrying out the concept of “Relaxing Restriction and Strengthen Regulation”, considerably decreasing prerequisite form examinations, pooling all the existing regulatory resources, transforming to aftermath regulation on violations, and better protecting the legal rights and interests of investors.   Besides, the implementation of the direct channel will be conducive to further improving the efficiency of information disclosure and market operation. Due to the IT growth and the reform on information transmission carries, all market participants put forward higher requirements for instantaneity and timeliness of information acquirement. The “Direct Channel” disclosure, based on the electronic system and the aftermath regulation, will better meet the requirements for instantaneity and timeliness, and dramatically improve the overall efficiency of the capital market.   Moreover, the implementation of the direct channel will facilitate the rule-of-law development and openness of the market. Synchronized with the to-be-implemented direct channel, the SSE will further perfect and disclose the regulatory standard and business process for the listed companies’ information disclosure.   II. Preparations for the Direct Channel   In accordance with the work plan for the direct channel, the SSE completed the direct physical path for submitting announcements in November 2012, thus realizing the electronic, networking, and paperless submission. Currently, the preparations for changing the regulatory approach have also been completed. Therefore, the conditions for the full implementation have been met.   First, the preparation for the applicable standard has been in place. In principle, the direct channel is applicable to all the SSE-listed companies with the categories of direct disclosure accounting for 66% of the total. In the principle of being responsible for the market and considering the interests of investors, the prerequisite form examination on the information disclosure, involving business operations, as well as mergers & acquisitions, and reorganizations, bankruptcy reorganization, delisting, refinancing, and other major issues, will be retained while the direct channel will not be implemented for the time being.   Second, the preparation for transition has been finished. The SSE has set a transitional period of half a year after the full implementation of the direct channel. During the transitional period, the SSE will step up counseling and replies to consultation for the listed companies. Meanwhile, according to the principle of combining punishment with leniency, on the one hand, the SSE will effectively prevent and severely punish the behaviors of making malicious use of the direct channel to disrupt the market and manipulate the stock prices; on the other hand, the SSE will play down to some extent or excuse the minor mistakes made by listed companies unintentionally with little impact on the market.   Third, the preparation for rules has been in place. On the basis of the existing rules for information disclosure, the SSE has specially formulated and revised 8 rules and systems related to the direct channel, including the “Business Guidelines on Direct Channel for Information Disclosure”, the “Implementation Scheme on Direct Channel of Information Disclosure”, the “Guidelines on Announcement Format”, the “Business Manual for Information Disclosure”, the “FAQs about Information Disclosure”, the “Working Regulations on After-action Check”, the “Measures for Assessment of Information Disclosure”, and the “Detailed Rules for Regulatory Measures and Disciplinary Sanctions”. In addition, it has been planned to compile the above-mentioned rules and guidelines into a book which will be released online and in the form of paper manual to facilitate the reference of the listed companies.   Fourth, the technological preparation has been made. The SSE has set up the technological system featuring safety, stability, and efficiency, and pushed forward the construction of the supportive SSE internal business management process system.   Fifth, the preparation for training has been completed. The SSE has organized 10 rounds of trainings for the direct channel with the participation of all of the 954 SSE-listed companies and more than 3,000 trainees, thus effectively helping all the listed companies to get fully prepared for the direct channel.   Sixth, the preparation for communication and publicity has been accomplished. The SSE has organized 6 forums for executives of listed companies to strengthen the publicity for the direct channel and listen to the listed companies’ opinions and suggestions face to face, and it has perfected the relevant processes as well.   III. The Work on the Direct Channel in the Next Step   In the next step after the full launching of the direct channel, the SSE will continue to pay great attention to all the processes in the operation of the direct channel, implement aftermath regulation, and effectively prevent all kinds of possible market risks. We will focus on the following tasks:   1. Stepping up service. After the implementation of the direct channel, the SSE will continue to provide the listed companies with professional services for information disclosure, take the initiative to explain the various laws and regulations and business rules applicable to specific cases in the trainings organized by it, and continually offer the listed companies advices in advance.   2. Controlling risks. Based on the “Working Regulations on After-action Check”, the SSE will sum up the internal and external risk points in all the business processes under the mode of after-action check and set up the preventive measures, continue to strengthen the monitoring over news before the opening every day, make effective use of the means of “Emergency Trading Suspension”, and urge the companies to timely correct the misleading disclosures of major issues and sensitive events.   3. Responding rapidly. In order to timely handle the emergencies highly concerned by the media with extensive social influence, the SSE will, according to the rapid response mechanism for emergencies, speed up the response, step up the punishment, require those with the obligation to disclose related information to make the explanation and clarification to the market in no time, and further disclose the regulatory processes and measures of the SSE.   4. Tightening punishment. The SSE has drawn up the “SSE Implementation Measures for Disciplinary Sanctions and Regulatory Measures (Draft)” recently and has officially solicited opinions from the public. The “Implementation Measures” has further enriched the regulatory means of the SSE. After the launching of the direct channel, the SSE will focus on stepping up the regulatory deterrence, seriously and resolutely handling the violations of laws and rules occurring in the direct channel.   IV. Expectations for All Direct Channel Participants   The implementation of the direct channel will lead to significant changes to the mode of the listed companies’ information disclosure, and as the obligators of information disclosure, the listed companies will completely independently control the processes of information disclosure. We hope that the listed companies could be aware of the significant change, attach great importance to the work related to the direct channel, carefully study the relevant rules, arrange for necessary professionals as well as software and hardware facilities, and effectively accomplish the tasks related to the direct channel. In addition, although the SSE has made full preparations for the direct channel, at the beginning of the launching, some listed companies may increase the number of additional or corrected announcements as a result of insufficient adaptation to the business rules and processes as well as unintentional mistakes. Therefore, we requested the understanding of the media.   The ultimate goal of all SSE’s reforms including the direct channel is to maintain openness, fairness, and justice in the market, and safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of the investors, especially the small and medium-sized investors. The SSE welcomes the opinions and suggestions from all market players, in a bid to help us constantly improve and perfect all the work related to the business of direct channel, enhance the quality and efficiency of the listed companies’ information disclosure, and ultimately promote the sound development of the capital market.   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

Constituent Periodical Review of SSE Credit Bond 100 Index
27 Jun 2013
(To be effective as of July 1st 2013)   Deletions Additions Bond code Bond shortened name Bond code Bond shortened name 122089 11马钢01 122003 07华能G2 122117 11闽高速 122029 09万通债 122132 12鹏博债 122036 09沪张江 122149 12石化01 122129 12酒钢债 122150 12石化02 122135 12宝泰隆 122162 12中孚债 122153 12京能01 122163 12鄂资债 122229 12国控01 122185 12力帆01 122231 12上电债 122209 12中油01 122504 12通天诚 122561 12饶城投 122509 12白中兴 122566 12库城建 122590 12鹤城投 122575 12肥城债 122607 12渝地产 122621 12赣城债 122678 12扬化工 122652 12杨农债 122679 12河套债 122719 12龙交投 122681 12合农投 122754 11通化债 122695 12五国投 122764 11泛海01 122711 12郑新债 122812 11淮北债 122714 12海陵债 122822 11汉中债 122743 12华发集 122834 11牡国投 122747 12晋煤运 122843 11绥化债 122908 10苏交通 122875 10红投02 122916 10红谷滩 122931 09临海债 122944 09株城投 122964 09龙湖债 122967 09闽漳龙 122973 09昆创控 124056 12启国投 122991 08海航债 124061 12沛国资 124010 12鸡国资 124071 12鹰投融 126013 08青啤债 124092 12鄂华研 126014 08国电债 124093 12喀城投 126015 08康美债 124112 13豫盛润 126016 08宝钢债 124122 13抚城投 126017 08葛洲债 124183 13津广成     Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. June 27, 2013    

SSE Improves Disciplinary Sanctions Mechanism in Three Aspects
24 Jun 2013
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (the SSE) will further publicize the standards and procedures of disciplinary sanctions, as well as enhance transparency in the frontline regulation.   The SSE will gradually standardize the format of the Letter of Decision on Disciplinary Sanctions, rationalize its content, reinforce its reasoning and demonstration, and strengthen its persuasiveness.   The SSE will disclose the typical cases of disciplinary sanctions in time, in a bid to effectively warn and educate the potential violators of laws and regulations.   The SSE has recently released the “SSE Measures for Implementation of Disciplinary Sanctions and Regulatory Measures” (the “Measures for Implementation” for short), in a bid to meet the requirements of strengthening “in-process and aftermath regulation” and promoting “Openness of Rules, Procedures, and Results”. The next step in the change of self-regulation was also disclosed at the news briefing convened by the SSE on last Friday. An SSE official said that the SSE will continue to improve its disciplinary sanctions mechanism in the three aspects, including further publicizing the standards and procedures of disciplinary sanctions and disclosing the typical cases of disciplinary sanctions in time.   At the news briefing, the SSE reported the effects achieved in the recent 5 years since the adoption of the mechanism of separating investigation from trial on illegal cases. In July 2008, the SSE released the “Detailed Rules on Disciplinary Punishment” and set up the Disciplinary Committee composed of experts both from the SSE and outside of it. In the past 5 years, the Disciplinary Committee convened a total of 54 discussion meetings and carried out 34 times of communication voting to discuss 275 violations of laws and regulations. Moreover, it publicly condemned 30 companies and 140 individuals, criticized 93 companies and 413 individuals, and disqualified 14 individuals from holding positions of directors, supervisors, or senior executives of listed companies within a certain period, apart from taking the measure of trading limitation on 111 securities accounts.   The SSE official also said that through practicing the aforesaid disciplinary sanctions, the SSE has formed a set of stable and mature practices, based on which, it formulated the “Measures for Implementation”, thus laying a solid foundation for meeting the requirements of the “Direct Channel for Information Disclosure” business, and further strengthening the in-process and aftermath regulation.   This official added that next, in the principle of promoting the rule of law and adhering to the guidance of openness, the SSE will continue to improve the disciplinary sanctions mechanism by attaching importance to the following three aspects. First, the SSE will further publicize the standards and procedures of disciplinary sanctions and enhance transparency in the frontline regulation; second, it will gradually standardize the format of the Letter of Decision on Disciplinary Sanctions, rationalize its content, reinforce its reasoning and demonstration, and strengthen its persuasiveness; third, the SSE will disclose the typical cases of disciplinary sanctions in time, in a bid to effectively warn and educate the potential violators of laws and regulations.   At the news briefing, the SSE also reported the law execution of self-regulation in the first half of this year. For the year to date, the SSE has carried out the self-regulation work oriented for the major illegal behaviors in the market, namely, the violations in annual performance predictions, shareholders’ equity change and relevant disclosure, listed companies’ significant transactions, significant issue disclosure, shares transactions of listed companies’ directors, supervisors, and senior executives, and others. The official also emphasized that under the request of the SSE, ST Shanghai Hongsheng Technology Co., Ltd. held a briefing to explain the termination of its significant assets reorganization, which was a significant information disclosure measure against “False Reorganization” or “Insincere Reorganization” for the purpose of protecting the rights and interests of investors. It is also learned that the SSE has reported the relevant issue to the China Securities Regulatory Commission for examination and verification, and it will continue to pay close attention and take follow-up regulatory measures according to the progress in the issue.   Moreover, this official mentioned that measures regarding the following 4 aspects will be taken to further enhance the pertinence, effectiveness, and timeliness of self-regulation in the second half of this year. First, it is emphasized that the person accountable should be made clear to make sure that responsibilities are duly assigned; second, according to the regulation concept of “Loosening Supervision While Tightening Regulation and Strengthening Law Enforcement”, the SSE will further enrich the types of regulatory measures, differentiate violations of laws and regulations, combine the disciplinary sanctions (including public criticism and public condemnation) with the regulatory measures (including ordered participation in training, dismissal from the present position, and deprivation of qualification for the Direct Channel business), with an aim to strengthen the hierarchy, differentiation, and deterrence of law enforcement; third, given the “Measures for Implementation”, on the basis of specified standards, principles, and procedures of sanctions, the SSE will try to set up categorized standards for sanctions in a wider scope, summarize the main characteristics of violations of the same kind, stipulate general sanction standards and less or more rigorous sanctions, aiming to further enhance the fairness in regulation and law enforcement; fourth, the SSE will optimize the procedures of disciplinary sanctions, so as to improve the timeliness of regulation and law enforcement as well as respond quickly to any violations.   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

Constituents Adjustment for SSE 150 Index
21 Jun 2013
Henan Topfond Pharmaceutical is to be delisted due to taken-over by China Meheco. The following adjustment will be effective on the delisting day.   Index Name 　　   　　 Deletion List 　　   　　 Addition List 　　   　　 Code 　　   　　 Name 　　   　　 Code 　　   　　 Name 　　   　　 SSE 150 　　   　　 600253 　　   　　 Topfond Pharmaceutical 　　   　　 600179 　　   　　 Heilongjiang Heihua 　　   　　   　　 Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 　　 2013.6.21 　　   　　

SSE, CSI Update Industry Classification of Listed Companies
20 Jun 2013
Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd (CSI) have recently published the adjusted industry classification of listed companies according to the annual reports of 2012. The adjustment involves 35 listed companies. For the results of industry classification, please refer to the SSE website (www.sse.com.cn) or the CSI website (www.csindex.com.cn). The adjustment will take effect on July 1, 2013. Appendix: Latest Industry Classification Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., LTD June 20, 2013

Notice of Issuing “SSE Measures for Implementation of Disciplinary Sanctions and Regulatory Measures”
20 Jun 2013
To all market participants,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (the SSE) has formulated and hereby issues the “SSE Measures for Implementation of Disciplinary Sanctions and Regulatory Measures” (the “Measures” for short, see the Attachment), in order to standardize the implementation of the SSE disciplinary sanctions and regulatory measures, maintain the market order, and protect the legal rights and interests of investors.   The “Measures” (Shang Zheng Fa Zi [2013] No. 4) will be enacted since July 1, 2013, with the “SSE Detailed Rules on Disciplinary Punishment” issued by the SSE on July 1, 2008 (Shang Zheng Fa Zi [2008] No. 6) abolished at the same time.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　June 20, 2013

SSE, CSI Update Industry Classification of Listed Companies
20 Jun 2013
Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd (CSI) have recently published the adjusted industry classification of listed companies according to the annual reports of 2012. The adjustment involves 35 listed companies.   For the results of industry classification, please refer to the SSE website (www.sse.com.cn) or the CSI website (www.csindex.com.cn). The adjustment will take effect on July 1, 2013.   　Appendix: Latest Industry Classification   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　China Securities Index Co., LTD 　　June 20, 2013

Constituents of SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index
19 Jun 2013
(To be effective as of July 1st 2013)   Bond Code Bond Shortened Name Bond Code Bond Shortened Name 122006 08金地债 122213 12松建化 122020 09复地债 122231 12上电债 122033 09富力债 122710 12济城建 122036 09沪张江 122711 12郑新债 122065 11上港01 122809 11准国资 122068 11海螺01 122819 11常城建 122079 11上港02 122833 11赣城债 122086 11正泰债 122921 10郴州债 122102 11广汇01 122923 10北汽投 122106 11唐新01 122949 09常投债 122114 11一重债 122957 09蓉工投 122136 11复星债 122959 09清控债 122149 12石化01 122964 09龙湖债 122165 12国电03 126018 08江铜债 122209 12中油01 126019 09长虹债         Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 2013-6-19

Adjustment List for SSE Corporate Governance Index, SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index and SSE Social Responsibility Index
18 Jun 2013
The following adjustment will be effective on July 1, 2013. Adjustment list for SSE Corporate Governance Index: Deletion List Addition List Code name Code name 601919 ChinaSCO Holdings company Limited 600028 China Petroleum & Chemicalrporation     600078 Jiangsu Chengxing Phosph-Chemicals     600259 Rising Nonferrous Metals Share     600335 Sinomach Automobile     600352 Zhejiang Longsheng Group     600386 Beijing Bashi Media     600406 NARI Technology Development Limitedmpany     600420 Shanghai Shyndec Pharmaceutical     600543 Gansu Mogao Industrial Development     600633 Zhe Jiang Daily Media Group     600660 Fuyao Glass Industry Group     600741 HUAYU Automotive Systemsmpany Limited     600763 Topchoice Medical Investment,Inc.     600815 Xiamen XGMA Machinerympany Limited.     601038 First Tractor Company Limited     601058 Sailun     601118 China Hainan Rubber Industry Group     601222 Jiangsu Linyang Electronics     601231 Universal Scientific Industrial(Shanghai)Co.,     601238 Guangzhou Automobile Group     601555 Soochow Securities     601636 Zhuzhou Kibing Group     601928 Jiangsu Phoenix Publishing&Mediarporation Limited     603000 People.Cn     603993 China Molybdenum  Adjustment list for SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index: Deletion List Addition List Code name Code name 600153 Xiamen C&D Inc 600028 China Petroleum & Chemicalrporation 600158 China Sports Industry Group 600259 Rising Nonferrous Metals Share 600325 Huafa IndustrialZhuhai 600406 NARI Technology Development Limitedmpany 600456 Baoji Titanium Industry 600528 China Railway Erju 600642 Shenergympany Limited 600741 HUAYU Automotive Systemsmpany Limited 600736 Suzhou New District Hi-Tech Industrial 601118 China Hainan Rubber Industry Group 600839 Sichuan Changhong Electric 601555 Soochow Securities 600895 Shanghai Zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park Development 601928 Jiangsu Phoenix Publishing&Mediarporation Limited 601098 China South Publishing & Media Group 603000 People.Cn 601618 Metallurgicalrporation of China 603993 China Molybdenum   Adjustment list for SSE Social Responsibility Index: Deletion List Addition List Code name Code name 600004 Guangzhou Baiyun International Airportmpany Limited 600262 Inner Mongolia North Hauler Joint Stock 600030 CITIC Securitiesmpany Limited 600422 Kunming Pharmaceuticalrp. 600058 Minmetals Development 600578 Beijing Jinneng Thermal Power 600246 Beijing Vantone Real Estate 600704 Zhejiang Material Industrial Zhongda Yuantong Group 600323 Nanhai Development 600741 HUAYU Automotive Systemsmpany Limited 600458 Zhuzhou Times New Material Technology 600987 Zhejiang Hangmin 600525 Changyuan Group 601009 Bank of Nanjing 600595 Henan Zhongfu Industrial 601222 Jiangsu Linyang Electronics 600611 Dazhong Transportation(Group)Co.,Ltd 601800 Chinammunicationsnstructionmpany Limited 600973 Baosheng Science and Technology Innovation 601877 Zhejiang Chint Electrics Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 2013.06.18

Adjustment List for SSE 180, SSE 50, SSE 380 and Other SSE Indices
17 Jun 2013
  The following adjustment will be effective on July 1, 2013. Adjustment list for SSE 180 Index： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 600009 Shanghai International Airport 600008 Beijing Capital 600072 CSSC Jiangnan Heavy 600062 Double-Crane Pharmaceutical 600108 Gansu Yasheng 600064 Nanjing Gaoke 600169 Taiyuan Heavy Industry 600094 Greattown Holdings 600331 Sichuan Hongda 600141 Xingfa Chemicals 600373 Chinese Universe Publishing 600157 Wintime Energy 600456 Baoji Titanium 600260 Kaile Science & Tech 600642 Shenergy Company 600315 Shanghai Jiahua 600664 Harbin Phar. 600372 AVIC Electronics 600804 Dr. Peng Telecom 600418 Jianghuai Automobile 600839 Changhong Electirc 600528 China Railway Erju 600844 Danhua Chemical 600588 Yonyou Software 600971 Hengyuan Coal 600684 Pearl River 601106 China First Heavy 600748 Shanghai Industrial Deve. 601158 Chongqing Water 600765 AVIC Heavy Machinery 601233 Tongkun Group 600780 Top Energy 601618 Metallurgical 601888 China International Travel 601666 Pingdingshan Coal 603993 China Molybdenum       Adjustment list for SSE 50 Index： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 600058 Minmetals Development 600383 Gemdale Corporation 600188 Yanzhou Coal 600518 Kangmei Pharmaceutical 601800 China Communications Construction 600999 Merchants Securities 601898 China Coal Energy 601788 Everbright Securities Adjustment list for SSE 380 Index： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 600006 Dongfeng Automobile 600009 Shanghai International Airport 600008 Beijing Capital 600073 Shanghai Maling Aquarius 600022 Shandong Iron and Steel 600162 Heungkong Holding 600051 Ningbo United Group 600230 Cangzhou Dahua 600062 Double-Crane Pharmaceutical 600236 Guangxi Guiguan Electric Power 600063 Wanwei Updated High-Tech Material 600238 Hainan Yedao 600081 Dongfeng Electronic Technology 600373 Chinese Universe Publishing and Media 600117 Xining Special Steel 600389 Jiangshan Agrochemical&Chemicals 600141 Xingfa Chemicals Group 600391 Chengfa Aero-Science & Technology 600157 Wintime Energy 600397 Anyuan Coal Industry Group 600226 Shenghua Biok Biology 600401 Hareon Solar Technology 600233 Dalian Dayang Trands 600565 Chongqing Dima Industry 600255 Xinke New Materials 600568 Zhong Zhu Holding Co.Ltd 600260 Kaile Science and Technology 600618 Shanghai Chlor-Alkali Chemical 600279 Chongqing Gangjiu 600642 Shenergy Company 600282 Nanjing Iron & Steel 600657 Cinda Real Estate 600290 Huayi Electric Company 600664 Harbin Pharmaceutical Group 600315 Shanghai Jahwa United 600682 Nanjing Xinjiekou Department Store 600328 Inner Mongolia Lantai Industrial 600692 Shanghai Ya Tong 600330 TDG Holding 600804 Chengdu Dr.Peng Telecom&Media 600418 Jianghuai Automobile 600826 Lansheng Corporation 600528 China Railway Erju 600839 Sichuan Changhong Electric 600588 Yonyou Software 600850 Shanghai East-China Computer 600684 Pearl River Industrial Development 600971 Hengyuan Coal and Electricity 600693 Fujian Dongbai 600987 Zhejiang Hangmin 600737 Cofco Tunhe 601038 First Tractor Company 600748 Shanghai Industrial Development 601106 China First Heavy Industries 600765 Avic Heavy Machinery 601158 Chongqing Water Group 600780 Top Energy Company 601179 China XD Electric 600791 Beih-Property 601233 Tongkun Group 600797 Insigma Technology 601313 SJEC Corporation 600822 Shanghai Material Trading 601666 Pingdingshan Tianan Coal Mining 600866 Starlake Bioscience 601700 Fengfan Power Equipment 601012 Xi'An Longi Silicon Materials 601965 China Automotive Engineering Research 601177 Hangzhou Advance Gearbox 601996 Fenglin Wood Industry Group 601519 Shanghai DZH 603167 Bohai Ferry 601558 Sinovel Wind Group 603399 New China Dragon Molybdenum 601888 China International Travel 603766 Loncin Motor Adjustment Lists for SSE and CSI Indices   Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., LTD 2013.06.17

SSE and CSI Dividend Potential Index, SSE and CSI Sector Dividend Indices To be Launched
05 Jun 2013
　　　 To further enhance index family as well as to provide new analysis tools and underlying instruments for investors, SSE and CSI today announced that SSE Dividend Potential Index, CSI Dividend Potential Index, SSE Sector Dividend Indices and CSI Sector Dividend Indices to be launched on July 2, 2013. Regarding the methodology and more details of the above indices, please refer to the official website of SSE (www.sse.com.cn) and CSI (www.csindex.com.cn).   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 　　June 5, 2013 　　   　　SSE and CSI Dividend Potential Index, SSE and CSI Sector Dividend Indices 　　Dividend Potential Cons 　　Sector Dividend Cons

SSE Market Closure Schedule for Dragon Boat Festival 2013
04 Jun 2013
All member units,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the Dragon Boat Festival 2013 in line with the “SSE Holiday Schedule for 2013” (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2012] No. 205). The SSE will close from June 10 (Monday) to June 12 (Wednesday), and open for trading on June 13 (Thursday). It will also close on the weekend on June 8 (Saturday) and June 9 (Sunday).   　　Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　May 31, 2013

Notice of Further Specifying Relevant Proportion Limit of ETFs Used as Underlying Securities of Margin Trading and Securities Lending
29 May 2013
All member units, fund management companies, and other market participants,   According to Articles 49 and 50 in the “SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Margin Trading and Securities Lending”, when the margin balance (or the remaining amount after securities lending) of some underlying securities reaches 25% of its floating market capitalization, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) may suspend its short purchase (or short sales) on the next trading day. With an aim to facilitate the development of the margin trading and securities lending business, as well as rationalize the control over market risks, the SSE hereby further specifies the proportion limit of implementing the aforesaid rules for ETFs as follows:   1. When the margin balance (or the remaining amount after securities lending) of some ETF reaches 75% of its floating market capitalization, the SSE will suspend its short purchase (or short sales) and make an announcement to the market on the next trading day.   When aforesaid proportion lowers below 70%, the SSE will resume the ETF’s short purchase (or short sales) and make an announcement to the market on the next trading day.   2. When the margin balance (or the remaining amount after securities lending) of some ETF reaches a percentage within 25%-75% of its floating market capitalization, the SSE will not suspend its short purchase (or short sales).   3. The SSE may adjust the aforesaid proportion limit according to demands on the market.   4. The Notice shall come into effect from June 3, 2013.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　May 29, 2013

Notice of New Candidates for "SSE Corporate Governance Sector"
27 May 2013
According to the "Appraisal Measures of SSE Corporate Governance Sector", after the disclosure of annual reports of 2012, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (the SSE) will adjust the constituents of the corporate governance sector and receive voluntary applications from new companies on the basis of the original 277 companies. It hereby publishes the 39 new candidate companies for the public to give comments on their governance and constructive advices or suggestions. Please submit your advices or suggestions in written form or by email to China Securities Index Co., Ltd. before May 31, 2013.   Contact methods are as follows:   Fax: 8621-50186368 E-mail: zhliu@sse.com.cn Address: Liu Zhenhua, China Securities Index Co., Ltd., 5/F, Building B, 555 Yingchun Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200135   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 　　May 27, 2013

Regulatory Changes of SSE in Concepts, Efficiency, Transparency
25 May 2013
Yesterday, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held a news briefing to announce its future trends of self-regulation. Vice President Xu Ming of the SSE said that in the future the SSE will do a good job in further transforming regulatory concepts, improving regulatory efficiency, and stepping up disclosure in regulation, while cracking down on the alleged violations of laws and regulations on the securities market in a bid to further establish the regulatory authority.   Xu pointed out that as a key market player and self-regulator, the SSE will make effective efforts in three aspects in the future. In the aspect of transforming the regulatory concepts, the SSE will further relax restrictions and strengthen the regulation so as to make all the market players “fully responsible in their places”. For example, the direct channel for information disclosure energetically promoted by the SSE recently is just an important initiative for transforming the regulatory concepts and modes. In the future, the SSE will gradually transform the regulatory concepts by changing from “Prerequisite Examination” to “Aftermath Regulation” and enhancing the self-restriction mechanism of the market.   With regard to further improving regulatory efficiency, the SSE will try to avoid the overlapped regulation which will increase the regulatory costs. Internally, the SSE has set up the "Regulatory Committee" to coordinate the work in self-regulation. Externally, the SSE has given further support to the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and its agencies, industry associations, and other relevant departments and institutions, and strengthened the coordination mechanism. The SSE has also further rationalized the processes and rules, streamlined procedures, and enhanced the rapid response mechanism.   With respect to further stepping up the disclosure and transparency in regulation, Xu said that it means not only disclosing the rules of the SSE’s self-regulatory management, publicly soliciting opinions from all market players in instituting the rules, and accepting the supervision of the market, but also disclosing the results, procedures, and processes of the regulation.   In addition to the promotion of the work in the abovementioned three aspects, Xu stressed that the SSE will crack down on the alleged violations of laws and regulations on the securities market in a bid to further establish the regulatory authority. At present, the SSE is revising its rules for disciplinary punishment by centralizing the relevant provisions previously implemented in the fields related to listed companies, market supervision, and others, constantly enriching and improving the regulatory means and measures, and reinforcing the punishing means. As for abnormal fluctuations in the market, the SSE will “investigate every case and never leave any violation of laws or regulations unaccountable”.   Through the above efforts, the SSE will fulfill the responsibilities of “Two Safeguards, One Promote” for the capital market, namely, vigorously safeguard the “Openness, Fairness, and Justice” on the capital market, safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors, and promote the stable, sound, and orderly development of the capital market.   At yesterday's briefing, the business departments of the SSE also announced the information of the regulation work and the progresses in important businesses such as the direct channel for information disclosure. In 2013, with regard to the violations of listed companies and relevant market players, the SSE has issued 18 decisions of regulatory measures (including letters on regulatory work), 3 decisions of disciplinary sanction, and 5 letters of intent for disciplinary sanction. Currently the focus is on the irregular operation of corporate governance, violations of listed companies in disclosure of information such as major transactions and major issues, and the dedication and fulfillment of duties of intermediaries in the process of information disclosure, etc.   Meanwhile, as an important part of self-regulation, the promotion of cash dividend distribution also achieved some success. On January 7, 2013, the SSE promulgated and enacted the “Guidance for Cash Dividend Distribution” with the dividend distribution of the 2012 annual reports firstly included in the scope of the Guidance. The data of the 2012 annual reports show that among the 954 SSE-listed companies, 653 companies introduced cash dividends in their profit distribution plans, accounting for 68.45% of the total, up from 59.50%. The total cash dividends planned to be distributed by SSE-listed companies in 2012 (including the semi-annual distribution) reached RMB595.9 billion, accounting for 35.16% of the total net profits owned by the shareholders of listed companies, with the proportion of cash dividend distribution higher than those in previous three years.   Moreover, the SSE recently issued the “Measures (Draft) for Implementation of Disciplinary Sanctions and Regulatory Measures” for publicly soliciting opinions, with an aim to rationalize the self-regulatory rules in a systematic way and integrate and standardize the sanctions on all kinds of regulated bodies, as well as strictly standardize the acts of self-regulation and improve the transparency and credibility of the regulation   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

Notice of Issuance of “Business Measures (Trial) on Trading, Registration and Settlement of Collateralized Repo of Shares”
24 May 2013
All member units and clearing institutions,   With an aim to regulate the trading of collateralized repo of shares, the Shanghai Stock Exchange and the China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd. have jointly formulated and hereby issue the “Business Measures (Trial) on Trading, Registration and Settlement of Collateralized Repo of Shares” (the Measures). All relevant parties are required to abide by the Measures.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange     China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd. 　　May 24, 2013

Notice of Taking ETFs as Underlying Securities of Margin Trading and Securities Lending
24 May 2013
All member units and fund management companies,   According to Articles 25 and 26 in the “SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Margin Trading and Securities Lending”, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby makes the following notice for relevant issues of taking ETFs as underlying securities of margin trading and securities lending:   1. Any ETF taking cross-market index or cross-border index as its tracking target which meets the following requirements could be taken as an underlying security of margin trading and securities lending after being traded on the SSE for at least 5 trading days:   a. The average daily asset size is not smaller than RMB2 billion; b. The number of fund holders is not less than 4,000.   2. The SSE could adjust the above requirements according to the market demands.   3. The Notice will take effect as of the issuance day. The “Notice of Taking ETFs as Underlying Securities of Margin Trading and Securities Lending” (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2012] No. 66) issued on May 18, 2012 shall be abolished at the same time.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　May 24, 2013

SSE Invites Institutions for Special Evaluation on Disclosure Quality of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” in Annual Reports
24 May 2013
Recently, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) launched the special evaluation on the disclosure quality of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” in the SSE-listed companies’ annual reports of 2012, by inviting institutional investors to conduct special evaluation on the disclosure quality of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” in listed companies’ annual reports.   It is learnt that, as a key disclosure aspect of a listed company’s annual report, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis”, based on analysis of the literal information of the company’s relevant financial statistics, is supposed to reveal the company management’s evaluation and analysis on the company’s business circumstances in the past, as well as make predictive judgment on the company’s development in the future; therefore, it is a necessary and useful complement for the company’s financial report, and can help strengthen the pertinence and effectiveness of information disclosure. The purpose of the special evaluation activity conducted by the SSE is to further enhance the disclosure quality of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” in listed companies’ annual reports, establish market models, and advocate the best practices.   The SSE has always attached great importance to the information disclosure of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis”, in a bid to constantly improve the disclosure quality of SSE-listed companies by various means. As early as in 2005, through cooperation with relevant institutions, the SSE launched the subject research on disclosure of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” in listed companies’ regular reports, on the basis of which, the SSE formulated the “No. 3 Memorandum on Annual Reports – Requirements for Compiling Management’s Discussion and Analysis”. In 2011, the SSE held the Corporate Governance Forum themed with the narrative information disclosure, and later made amendments to the aforesaid memorandum in consideration of the latest regulatory practices, providing useful references for the China Securities Regulatory Commission in terms of amending the annual report rules.   It is also learnt that, the activity of special evaluation on “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” this time will be divided into two phases: in the first phase, according to the relevant standards in terms of the completeness, relevance, and policy-making pertinence, the research departments of institutional investors including the securities companies and fund management companies will analyze and evaluate the disclosure quality of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” in the SSE-listed companies’ annual reports of 2012, based on which, they will vote to generate ten companies with best performances in disclosure quality; in the second phase, the SSE will rank the ten listed companies according to the vote result of the institutional investors, award the title of “Enterprise with Best Disclosure of ‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis’ in Annual Reports of 2012” to the ten listed companies winning most votes, and publish the name list.   The SSE said that, this special evaluation activity is a significant attempt to propel the institutional investors to participate in corporate governance and enhance the efficiency of information disclosure on the part of the listed companies. The institutional investors’ evaluation result in this activity will offer references for further assessment on listed companies’ secretaries to directorates and the appraisal of special award for corporate governance.   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

Adjustment List for SSE Wealth Mid-Small Index
17 May 2013
The following adjustments will be effective on 3 Jun, 2013. 　　   　　 Adjustment List for SSE Wealth Mid-Small Index: Deletion List Addition List Stock Code Stock Name Stock Code Stock Name 600253 Topfond Pharmaceutical 600247 Jilin Chengcheng Group 600807 Shandong Tyan Home 600095 Harbin High-Tech 600433 Guanhao High-Tech 600756 Inspur Software 600077 Sundy Land Investment 600090 Xin Jiang Hops 600971 Hengyuan Coal and Electricity 600242 Zhongchang Marine 600475 Huaguang Boiler 600238 Hainan Yedao 600645 Zhongyuan Union Stem Cell Bioengineering 600699 Liaoyuan Joyson Electronic 600749 Tibet Tourism 600313 Zhongken Agricultral Resource Development 600073 Shanghai Maling Aquarius 600396 Jinshan Energy 600491 Long Yuan Construction Group 600191 Huazi Industry 600963 Yueyang Forest & Paper 600490 Shanghai Synica 600576 Zhejiang WHWH Industry 600515 Hainan Island Construction 600567 Shanying Paper Industry 600446 Shenzhen Kingdom Technology 600255 Xinke New Materials 600222 Taloph Pharmaceutical 600503 Deluxe Family 600162 Heungkong Holding 600855 Aerospace Changfeng 600285 Lingrui Pharmaceutial 600716 Phoenix Property Investment 600545 Xinjiang Urban Construction 600779 Sichuan Swellfun 600605 Shanghai Huitong Energy 600816 Anxin Trust & Investment 600846 Tongji Science&Technology 600425 Qingsong Building Materials and Chemicals 603123 Beijing Cuiwei Tower 600192 Greatwall Electrcal 600804 Dr.Peng Telecom&Media Group 600227 Guizhou Chitianhua 600656 Zhuhai Boyuan Investment 600390 Kingray New Materials Science & Tech 600578 Jinneng Thermal Power 600505 Xichang Electric Power 600882 Shandong Hualian Mining 600662 Qiangsheng Holding 600512 Tengda Construction Group 600767 Winsan Industrial Corporation 600596 Xinan Chemical Indusyrial Group 600838 Shanghai Join Buy 600258 Beijing Capital Tourism 600889 Nanjing Chemical Fibre 600403 Henan Dayou Energy 600962 SDIC Zhonglu Fruit Juice 600714 Qinghai Jinrui Mineral 601058 Sailun 600637 BesTV New Media   　　                                                                    Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. May 17, 2013   　　

Notice of Soliciting Public Opinions on "SSE Measures (Draft) for Disciplinary Sanctions and Regulatory Measures”
13 May 2013
All market participants,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the “SSE Measures (Draft) for Disciplinary Sanctions and Regulatory Measures”, in a bid to standardize the SSE’s self-regulation and supervision, enhance the transparency of its regulation, and protect legal rights and interests of investors. The SSE hereby solicits public opinions on the draft above.   Please send your opinions or suggestions on the draft to the SSE in written form or by e-mail before May 17, 2013.   　　Fax: 021-68812933 　　E-mail: jtan@sse.com.cn 　　Mailing address: SSE Legal Affairs Dept., 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　May 13, 2013

Notice of Soliciting Public Opinions on “Standardized Requirements (Draft Version for Opinion Soliciting) for No. 11 Memorandum on Listed
02 May 2013
All market participants,   To regulate the information-disclosure-related conducts of the relevant parties in margin trading, securities lending and refinancing businesses, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the “Standardized Requirements (Draft Version for Opinion Soliciting) for Information Disclosure about Margin Trading, Securities Lending, and Refinancing for No. 11 Memorandum on Listed Companies’ Work of Day-to-day Information Disclosure”. The SSE hereby solicits public opinions on the draft version (see the Attachment for the draft version for opinion soliciting).   Please send your opinions or suggestions on the draft version to the SSE in written form or by e-mail before May 15, 2013.   Contact methods: Fax: 021-68811782, E-mail: listing@sse.com.cn Mailing address: SSE Department I of Listed Companies Supervision, Shanghai Stock Exchange Building, 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　May 2, 2013

“One Day at the SSE” Successfully Held
26 Apr 2013
On April 25, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held the “One Day at the SSE”, a public activity involving micro-blog fans of the SSE, inviting investors and reporters to jointly beat the opening and closing gongs for that day’s trading. It was the first time the gong was beaten by general investors since the establishment of the SSE.   Yesterday, the “One Day at the SSE” activity was successfully held by the SSE. General investors and reporters attending the activity together beat the opening and closing gongs for yesterday’s trading, which was the first time since the SSE’s establishment. During the activity, investors and reporters sent altogether 186 image-text micro-blogs and webcast the whole process.   “We can feel by our hearts the SSE’s sincerity and its work transparency through this activity,” a micro-blog fan called “kingshirley” spoke highly of it.   As a pioneer organizing micro-blog fans activity in securities industry, the SSE selected two items, namely, the information disclosure and supervision of listed companies and the market supervision, both winning the most attention through a public vote on the official micro-blog “SSE Release”, to be fully opened to the visitors. Micro-blog fans and reporters participated in all activities concerning listed companies’ supervision, such as morning news monitoring, regulation revision meeting, review on merger, acquisition and reorganization plan, and disciplinary meeting, viewed the supervisory talk with illegal listed company and the process of examining and verifying temporary announcements, and listened to the briefing of the after-action check on annual reports and the handling of complains via letters and visits. Meanwhile, they watched the investigation and handling of abnormal trading occurring in the market supervision, and heard the introduction of different procedures (real-time supervision, audit and investigation, and former businesses analysis) of market supervision. The activity provided the fans and reporters with a rare opportunity to visit the real-time supervision room which is not open even for the SSE staff.   The SSE also set a surprising part for the activity -- inviting micro-blog fans and reporters to strike the opening and closing gongs for April 25’s trading. It was the first time the gong was stroke by general investors ever since its establishment in 1990. “It’s really surprising and exciting to beat the gong as an ordinary investor,” said a micro-blog fan named “Brother Cheng – go straight along right path” and hoped that he could strike the gong again as a board chairman when his company is listed on the market.   In this full-day activity, the SSE also organized micro-blog fans and reporters to tour around the trading floor and the showroom, and offered them the opportunity to communicate with the senior management from Guanghui Energy Co., Ltd. who were preparing for a performance briefing at the trading floor. Ni Juan, Secretary to Directorate of Guanghui Energy, said that it’s a real surprise to see so many investors and reporters in the trading hall. The activity is of great significance to improve the SSE’s work transparency and response to the public concern. It is hoped that more investors would have a close contact with the SSE. Moreover, micro-blog fans and reporters also watched the SSE’s introduction video, enjoyed some dumplings at its canteen, and participated in the symposium for interaction and Q&A.   Earlier this year, SSE Governor Gui Minjie required that improving transparency should be regarded as one of the fundamental construction objectives of the SSE and must be preserved as an important and regular practice. An official of the SSE said that this activity was only a start. The SSE will, with official micro-blog “SSE Release” as its carrier, continue to innovate thinking and explore various and extensive interactive activities with investors. The SSE will earnestly listen to all market opinions, intensify its efforts on promoting work transparency, and join hands with investors and the market to push forward the capital market toward a better development.   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE Trading Floor Holds Another Listed Company’s Performance Briefing (2013-04-26)
26 Apr 2013
Following the first annual performance briefing of 2012 of Zhejiang CHINT Electrics Co., Ltd., Guanghui Energy Co., Ltd. also held its annual performance briefing of 2012 at the trading floor of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) on April 25. The road show center of SSE InfoNet Ltd. provided the platform service and the network support for this briefing.   The performance briefing of Guanghui Energy started as scheduled at 3:30 p.m. yesterday with a live broadcast on the online platform of SSE InfoNet Ltd. Attending the briefing were Managing Director, Financial Director, Secretary to Directorate and other senior executives of Guanghui Energy as well as more than 100 people including representatives of institutional investors, industry analysts and media reporters. At the briefing, the company clarified and explained to the investors and reporters its annual audit of 2012 as well as issues which gained much attention from the market, and replied to the concerns of small and medium-sized investors on the Internet.   After the briefing, some on-site investors were interviewed. They expressed their appreciation and support for SSE for providing exchange services for companies and investors. They believed that the SSE trading floor witnessed the development of China’s securities marker in the past 20 years, and the listed company’s briefing for investors being held here is of great significance.   Recently, the SSE has repeatedly provided listed companies with hardware and software facilities to hold briefings for investors. An SSE official said the move aimed to serve listed companies as well as investors in the securities market, provide a channel for the communication between companies and investors, and further improve the investor relation management and the information disclosure transparency of listed companies.   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2013 Labor Day
24 Apr 2013
All member units,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces its market closure schedule for 2013 Labor Day according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2013" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2012] No. 205) as follows: the SSE will close from April 29 (Monday) to May 1 (Wednesday) and open for trading on May 2 (Thursday). It will also close on the weekend on April 27 (Saturday) and April 28 (Sunday).   　　Please make relevant arrangements according to this notice.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　April 24, 2013

Shandong, SSE Ink All-round Cooperation Agreement
23 Apr 2013
 On April 22, the Shandong Provincial People’s Government and the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) sign a memorandum on comprehensive strategic cooperation in Jinan, Shandong Province. Sun Wei, Standing Member of the CPC Shandong Provincial Committee and Executive Deputy Governor of Shandong Province, and Gui Minjie, SSE Governor, attended the signing ceremony and delivered speeches. Li Yongjian, Chief of the Financial Work Office of Shandong Province, and Xu Ming, SSE Vice President, on behalf of the two sides, signed the memorandum. On the very day, the Financial Work Office of Shandong Province and the SSE jointly held a training workshop on the capital market in Jinan. Sun said in his speech that over the past years, the CPC Shandong Provincial Committee and the Shandong Government had attached importance to the reform and growth of the capital market and made outstanding achievements in the building of the multi-tiered capital market system by fostering backup resources for listing, expanding the financing sizes of enterprises’ listing, and guiding the issuance of various enterprise bonds by qualified enterprises. So far, Shandong has boasted a total of 237 listed companies and 250 listed stocks, with the accumulatively raised funds up to RMB304.8 billion. The province is now at the key stage of industrialization and urbanization, and the transformation and upgrading of its economy are also at a crucial point, with great potential to be expected. All this has provided valuable opportunities for the two sides’ strategic cooperation. Sun added that the SSE, the top securities trading market in China, is a major platform in the domestic capital market. In recent years, the SSE has considerably supported the economic and social development of Shandong. It has continuously expanded the cooperation areas with Shandong by elevating the cooperation level and establishing a close strategic partnership with the province, thus providing considerable support and help for the participation of the province’s real economy in the capital market. He hoped that the two sides, by taking the advantage of the signing of the memorandum, would cement cooperation, propel the innovation of financial products and services, and sponsor cooperation and exchange in terms of technology, regulation, talent, service, and others, in a bid to further the reform and opening-up as well as the steady growth of the province’s capital market for a win-win situation and mutual development. Gui said in his speech that the SSE market, one of the major parts of the domestic capital market, had made remarkable achievements and developed into one of the emerging securities markets with most rapid growth in the world after more than 20 years of growth. The stock market capitalization, amount of financing, and turnover of the SSE have respectively ranked the 7th, the 3rd, and 6th worldwide. The SSE has built itself into one of the major markets in the globe. Forty-eight Shandong-based enterprises have been listed on the SSE, with the total market capitalization up to more than RMB400 billion. The Shandong-based blue-chip companies, represented by a batch of excellent companies such as Yanzhou Coal Mining Company Limited and Tsingtao Brewery Co., Ltd., have become an essential part of the SSE market. Gui added that under the leadership of the CPC Shandong Provincial Committee and the Shandong Provincial Government, the province’s economy would be bound to grow rapidly and the securitization ratio of the province would dramatically increase, with the reinforcement of all the reforms. The SSE will strengthen the cultivation and guidance for the listing of the enterprises in such areas as the Shandong Peninsula Blue Economic Zone and the Yellow River Delta Efficient Ecological Economic Zone, boost the listing and financing of the Shandong-based companies in strategic emerging industry, modern service industry, modern agriculture, cultural media and other industries according to the requirements put forward in the development strategy and industrial policies for the state’s key zones, in addition to providing comprehensive professional services in many forms for the Shandong-based enterprises with plans for listing. Moreover, the SSE will further cooperate with Shandong to drive the continuous standardized development of listed companies and their reinforced rationalization, and facilitate the cooperation and exchange on innovation in the capital market. He believed that by taking the advantage of the strategic cooperation, Shandong would continuously give full play to its advantage in the real economy, make full use of the capital market, and fuel the leapfrog economic growth. Guo Shuqing, Deputy Party Chief of the CPC Shandong Provincial Committee and Acting Governor of Shandong Province, meet Gui Minjie and his entourage after the signing ceremony. On the very day, the Financial Work Office of Shandong Province and the SSE held a training workshop on the capital market in Jinan. Sun Xianqing, Deputy Chief of the Financial Work Office of Shandong Province, Xu Ming, Vice President of the SSE, and Chen Fei, Deputy Director of Shandong Branch of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, delivered speeches at the ceremony of launching the training workshop. Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE Rushes into Earthquake Relief
21 Apr 2013
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) immediately launched an emergency scheme at 8:45 a.m. after the earthquake strike in Lushan County, Sichuan Province on April 20. As required by the scheme, the SSE’s personnel related to listed company regulation, member service, technical support and communication guarantee earnestly fulfilled their duties, paid high attention to the development of the earthquake and organized a donation activity for the quake-stricken areas. According to the deployment on earthquake relief made by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the SSE worked out its emergency working principles as follows. First, everyone should seriously fulfill his or her duty. That is, efforts should be made to promptly contact with the local listed companies and help them disclose information about the disaster’s impact by attaching importance to assisting investors in timely grasping the production and operation of the listed companies in the quake-stricken areas and ensuring the steady operation of the market. Second, endeavors should be made to send help, instead of making messes and adding burdens to the quake-stricken areas. Under the precondition of adding few communication and labor burdens to the quake-stricken areas, the information communication mechanism of the securities regulatory system and the cooperative regulation mechanism with the CSRC Sichuan Branch should be used to get a better knowledge of the disaster’s impact on local areas and the specific difficulties, before effectively participating in the earthquake relief. Third, everyone should make preparations and act at any given moment. The emergency response level should be elevated. Besides, a trans-department technical rescue team will be established to prepare for emergency service as well as technology and communication support, with an aim of immediately sending the service, support, and assistance in case of receiving the request from the quake-stricken areas. It is learnt that after the launch of the emergency scheme, the SSE made the first call to a secretary to the directorate of a listed company based in Sichuan at 9:00 a.m. on April 20. In order not to occupy telecommunication resources which are essential in disaster relief in the quake-stricken areas, the regulatory staff sent questions to the companies by Weixin, SMS, and other communication tools in their regulatory work so that the inquirees could reply at a proper time. As of the morning on April 21, the SSE had contact with all the 36 Sichuan-based companies listed on it and helped them make timely announcements on the impact of the quake disaster on their production and operation. Upon efforts, all the 36 companies released the impact of the quake on their companies on April 21. Specifically, four companies suffered slight losses, and the rest were not affected by the earthquake. On April 22, trading of the 36 companies was on a normal track. Moreover, the SSE started to check other listed companies with major production and operation projects in Sichuan, with the details to be announced as soon as possible. Meanwhile, the SSE established a hotline for emergency contact with the on-duty office of the CSRC Sichuan Branch, so as to get a timely understanding of the conditions of the securities business organizations in quake-hit Sichuan. The SSE is ready to help them carry out rush repair for post-disaster reconstruction and resumption of securities trading. In light of the current circumstances, the operation of the securities business organizations in Sichuan is normal on the whole. All the SSE’s employees cared much about the disaster-hit areas. In these two days, they were highly concerned about the quake-stricken areas, prayed for Lushan County and cheered up Ya’an City in their Weixin group and QQ group. They discussed the issue of helping the quake-stricken areas and sending blessings to them, and organized a donation activity. The SSE said that it would, with its loving care and in response to the state’s call, support earthquake relief and post-quake reconstruction, and overcome all the difficulties together with the masses in the quake-stricken areas. Source: www.stcn.com

SSE Enhances Work Transparency through Micro-blog
19 Apr 2013
The recruitment of micro-blog fans for the webcast themed with “One Day at the SSE” is launched. The official micro-blog “SSE Release” of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), by joining hands with other micro-blogs, including those of the Shanghai Securities News, people.com.cn, finance.sina.com.cn, and finance.qq.com, will hold a webcast of pictures and messages sent by the SSE’s micro-blog fans, in a bid to further enhance the SSE’s work transparency, help the market and all walks of life understand its work, and continuously improve its service quality. A batch of the SSE’s micro-blog fans will be invited to visit the exchange. The most concerned departments and working procedures of the SSE will be opened to the micro-blog fans according to their voting results. On the afternoon of April 17, the “SSE Release” made an announcement on the recruitment of micro-blog fans for the webcast themed with “One Day at the SSE”. According to the announcement, the webcast will be a whole day event held on April 25. The SSE will recruit the participants on its micro-blog and fix the departments which will organize the reception. It is learnt that only the fans of the “SSE Release”, with good health and having a good command of sending image-text micro-blogs with their mobile phones, could take part in the activity. Besides, each of them is asked to release at least 20 image-text micro-blogs during the event. The SSE will require all the participants to voluntarily sign a confidentiality agreement, in which they promise not to carry out securities investment on the webcast day. To sign up for the activity, having experience in investment on the SSE market will be a plus. Registration for the webcast will be opened on the micro-blog “SSE Release” before 12:00 on April 21, and the micro-blog will send mails to confirm the final participants before 17:00 on April 22. According to the arrangement, on April 25, the confirmed participants will learn about the crucial working procedures of the relevant SSE departments, including business discussion, examination and approval, as well as monitoring, and visit the trading floor and the exhibition room. The SSE will also organize an array of activities for interaction, Q&A, and feedback. The SSE said that the webcast will contribute to improving its work transparency, facilitating investors’ understanding of its regular operation, helping them learn more about its working procedures, and elevating the popularity and influence of its official micro-blog. Source: Shanghai Securities News

Corporate Subdivision Bond Index Series To Be Launched
08 Apr 2013
Designed to characterize the corporate bonds’ prices variation tendency in many ways as well as to serve as new investment analysis tools and performance evaluation benchmarks for bond investors, CSI today announced the upcoming launch of SSE Corporate Subdivision Bond Index Series on May 3rd 2013. The methodology are as followed. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. April 8, 2013 SSE Corporate Subdivision Index Series Methodology SSE Corporate Subdivision Index Series Cons

Revision Note on “SSE Provisions on Management of Raised Funds of Listed Companies”
02 Apr 2013
To further standardize the management and utilization of funds raised by the companies listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), improve the usage efficiency of the raised funds and protect the legitimate rights and interests of the investors, the SSE has revised the “SSE Provisions on Management of Raised Funds of Listed Companies” (the "Provisions") and formulated the “SSE Measures on Management of Raised Funds of Listed Companies (Revised in 2013)” (the “Measures”). The issues concerning the revision are specified as follows: I. Backgrounds and Objectives of the Revision The Provisions currently in effect in the SSE was formulated in accordance with the “Notice of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) on Further Regulating Utilization of Funds Raised by Listed Companies” (Zheng Jian Gong Si Zi [2007] No. 25 Document), and promulgated and put into effect in June 2008. The revision to the Provisions was mainly based on the following two issues of concern: First, to keep consistent with the new provisions of the CSRC on the management and utilization of the raised funds. In December 2012, the CSRC promulgated the “No. 2 Regulatory Guidelines of Listed Companies: Regulatory Requirements for Management and Use of Listed Companies’ Raised Funds” (CSRC Announcement [2012] No. 44 Document), which was put into effect as of the date of the promulgation. The No. 2 Regulatory Guidelines introduces new regulatory requirements for the management and utilization of funds raised by the listed companies, and abolishes the “Notice on Further Standardizing the Utilization of Funds Raised by Listed Companies”. Therefore, it is necessary to make corresponding revisions to the Provisions, in a bid to keep consistent with the No. 2 Regulatory Guidelines. 　　 Second, to add the provisions on the management and utilization of the excessively raised funds. To address the problems existing in the management and utilization of the excessively raised funds of the listed companies, the SSE issued specially the “Notice on Problems Concerning Management and Utilization of Funds Excessively Raised by Listed Companies” in October 2011 in a bid to impose regulation. In August 2012, on the basis of the notice, the SSE released the “Memorandum No. 7 on the Work of Routine Information Disclosure – Utilization and Management of Funds Excessively Raised by Listed Companies” (the “Memorandum”), making further provisions on the management and utilization of the excessively raised funds. To facilitate the use and implementation of the listed companies, the revision has incorporated the contents of the Memorandum in the Measures and kept consistent with the relevant provisions of the No. 2 Regulatory Guidelines. II. Main Revised Contents of the Provisions In accordance with the new regulatory requirements of the No. 2 Regulatory Guidelines for the management and utilization of the funds raised by listed companies, the revised contents are as follows: (I) Further relaxing the management and utilization of the idle raised funds to improve the efficiency in utilizing the raised funds 1. Expanding the usages of the idle raised funds. The existing Provisions only allow the temporarily idle raised funds to be used in temporarily supplementing the liquidity while the other usages are subject to the fulfillment of the relevant procedures for changing the usage of the raised funds. In order to expand the channels for investing the idle raised funds and improve the efficiency in using the idle raised funds, the revised Measures not only allow the temporarily idle raised funds to be used in temporarily supplementing the liquidity but also allow the temporarily idle raised funds to implement the cash management and invest in the products meeting the relevant requirements such as high degree of safety and sound liquidity, stipulating the corresponding decision-making processes and the requirements for information disclosure. 2. Simplifying the process of using the idle raised funds in temporarily supplementing the liquidity. In accordance with the existing Provisions, if the listed companies use the idle raised funds in temporarily supplementing the liquidity, the sum should not exceed 50% of the net amount of the raised funds every time, and the use of more than 10% of the sum of the raised funds should be discussed and approved by the Shareholders’ Meetings where the voting by means of network should be provided. The revision has eliminated the restrictions on the sum when the listed companies use the idle raised funds in temporarily supplementing the liquidity, and simplified the process of the listed companies’ internal decision making by stipulating that any sum is only subject to the deliberation and approval of the board of directors of the listed companies as well as to the opinions given by the independent directors, the board of supervisors and the sponsor institutions, without the need for submission to the Shareholders’ Meetings for discussion. 3. Extending the period of using the idle raised funds in temporarily supplementing the liquidity. The current Provisions require that the single period should not be longer than 6 months for the listed companies to use the idle raised funds in temporarily supplementing the liquidity. The revised Measures have extended the period from 6 months to 12 months. (II) Further standardizing the management and utilization of the excessively raised funds The Memorandum does not limit the sums of using the excessively raised funds in permanently supplementing the liquidity and repaying the bank loans every 12 months. The revised Measures, on the basis of incorporating the relevant contents of the Memorandum and in accordance with the provisions of the No. 2 Regulatory Guidelines, further regulate the management and utilization of the excessively raised funds, mainly adding the following contents: (1) the listed companies may use the excessively raised funds in permanently supplementing the liquidity or repaying the bank loans, but the accumulated used sum every 12 months should not exceed 30% of the total excessively raised funds, and listed companies should make the commitment not to make high risk investments or provide financial aid for others within 12 months after supplementing the liquidity; (2) the use of the excessively raised funds in permanently supplementing the liquidity or repaying the bank loans should be discussed and approved by the boards of directors and the Shareholders’ Meetings with the means of network voting provided for the shareholders, and the independent directors, the board of supervisors and the sponsor institutions should give clear opinions of approval. The listed companies should report to the SSE and make the announcements in 2 trading days after the meeting of the directorate. (III) Amendments to other relevant articles 1. Extending the term of signing a three-party supervision agreement on special accounts deposit of raised funds. It is required in the existing Provisions that a listed company should sign a three-party supervision agreement on special accounts deposit of raised funds with the sponsor and the commercial bank where the raised funds are deposited within 2 weeks after the raised funds are received in the account. The revision has extended the term of signing the three-party supervision agreement from two weeks to one month. 2. Giving the term of replacing raised funds. The existing Provisions have made stipulations on relevant issues of listed companies’ planning to replace self-raised funds previously invested by them with raised funds, but haven’t nailed down the term for the replacement. The revision has specified that a listed company could replace self-raised funds with raised funds within 6 months after the raised funds are received in the account. 3. Further specifying the requirement for disclosing the deposit and use of annual raised funds. The existing Provisions only require that a sponsor should issue a special examination report on deposit and use of the relevant listed company’s annual raised funds. The revision has added the requirement for relevant accounting firm’s authentication and the contents related to the disclosure of the “Special Report on Raised Funds”. That is, a listed company should engage an accounting firm during its annual audit to issue an authentication report on deposit and use of raised funds, which should be submitted to the SSE when disclosing its annual report and disclosed on the SSE website. If idle raised funds are used to invest in products in the current term, the relevant listed company should disclose in the “Special Report on Raised Funds” the income in the current reporting period, the investment shares, signing parties, product names, and terms at the end of the period.

Notice of Releasing “SSE Measures on Management of Raised Funds of Listed Companies (Revised in 2013)”
02 Apr 2013
All listed companies,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has amended the “SSE Measures on Management of Raised Funds of Listed Companies” (the “Measures”) according to the “No. 2 Regulatory Guidelines of Listed Companies: Regulatory Requirements for Management and Use of Listed Companies’ Raised Funds” (CSRC Announcement [2012] No. 44 Document) promulgated by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), in a bid to further standardize the use and management of listed companies’ raised funds, elevate the efficiency of using raised funds, and protect legal rights and interest of investors. The SSE hereby releases the amended “Measures”, which shall be put into effect as of the release day, and all listed companies are expected to abide by it.   Each listed company should amend its management system of raised funds according to the amended “Measures”, namely the “SSE Measures on Management of Raised Funds of Listed Companies (Revised in 2013)”, and disclose its management system to the public.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　March 29, 2013

Notice on Releasing “SSE Business Guidelines for Shares Repurchase by Listed Companies through Auction Trading (Revised in 2013)”
01 Apr 2013
All market participants, To guide and rationalize shares repurchase by listed companies through auction trading, safeguard the securities market order, and protect legal rights and interests of investors and listed companies, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has revised the “SSE Business Guidelines for Shares Repurchase by Listed Companies through Auction Trading” (Shang Zheng Shang Zi [2008] No. 106 Document). The SSE hereby releases the “SSE Business Guidelines for Shares Repurchase by Listed Companies through Auction Trading (Revised in 2013)”, which shall come into force from the date of release. Shanghai Stock Exchange April 1, 2013

Constituent Periodical Review of SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index and Other Indices
29 Mar 2013
(To be effective as of Apr 1st 2013)   Constituent Periodical Review of SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index Deletions Additions Bond code Bond shortened name Bond code Bond shortened name 122023 09万业债 122209 12中油01 122029 09万通债 122149 12石化01 122035 09苏高新 122200 12晋兰花 122051 10石化01 122136 11复星债 122067 11南钢债 122819 11常城建 122783 11苏中能 122809 11准国资 122798 11泰矿债 122949 09常投债 122836 11盘锦债 122833 11赣城债 122840 11临汾债 122947 09合建投 122890 10凯迪债 122946 09扬城建 122892 10寿光债 122682 12营口债 122927 09海航债 122710 12济城建 122932 09宜城债 122957 09蓉工投 122936 09鹤城投 122786 11联想债 122940 09咸城投 122868 10沈煤债 122996 08常城建 122923 10北汽投 126011 08石化债 122959 09清控债     2.   Constituent Periodical Review of SSE Credit Bond 100 Index   Deletions Additions Bond code Bond shortened name Bond code Bond shortened name 122028 09华发债 122021 09广汇债 122035 09苏高新 122068 11海螺01 122059 10重钢债 122070 11海航01 122073 11云维债 122089 11马钢01 122075 11柳钢债 122112 11沪大众 122095 11杭钢债 122149 12石化01 122107 11安钢01 122150 12石化02 122136 11复星债 122163 12鄂资债 122181 12山鹰债 122165 12国电03 122515 12庆城投 122185 12力帆01 122599 12梵投债 122209 12中油01 122635 12芜开02 122213 12松建化 122679 12河套债 122549 12邳润城 122715 12蓉新城 122561 12饶城投 122729 12江泉债 122566 12库城建 122779 11株城发 122621 12赣城债 122805 11大同债 122649 12长建投 122821 11吉城建 122680 12昆建债 122825 11景德镇 122744 11本溪债 122830 11沈国资 122757 11丹东债 122856 11株高科 122765 11泛海02 122874 10红投01 122803 11滁州债 122915 10镇水投 122843 11绥化债 122925 09沈国资 122893 10丹东债 122939 09吉安债 122973 09昆创控 122944 09株城投 124010 12鸡国资 122964 09龙湖债 124020 12辽城经 126011 08石化债 124081 12长先导     Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 2013-3-29

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2013 Tomb Sweeping Day
29 Mar 2013
All member units,   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for 2013 Tomb Sweeping Day according to the “SSE Holiday Schedule for 2013” (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2012] No. 205). The SSE will close from April 4 (Thursday) to April 6 (Saturday) and open for trading on April 8 (Monday). It will also close on the weekend on April 7 (Sunday).   　　Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　March 29, 2013

SSE Trading Floor Serves Listed Companies
28 Mar 2013
Yesterday, Zhejiang CHINT Electrics Co., Ltd. (CHINT for short) held a briefing for its annual performance of 2012 at the trading floor of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) for the first time. The move was a rapid implementation of the proposal of “Providing Service for Listed Companies Carrying out Investor Relation Management at SSE Trading Floor” put forward by SSE Governor Gui Minjie at the press conference during the NPC and CPPCC sessions.   CHINT disclosed its 2012 annual report on March 23, 2013. On the same day, the announcement of CHINT said that the company would hold a performance briefing at the road show center of SSE InfoNet Ltd. (SSE InfoNet), and solicit questions from investors. On March 27, the company’s performance briefing was held at the SSE trading floor as scheduled, with a live broadcast available on the online platform (http://roadshow.sseinfo.com) of SSE InfoNet as well. Attending the briefing were the board chairman, general manager, chief financial officer, secretary to directorate, and other senior executives of the company, as well as some institutional investors and industry analysts. The relevant personnel of CHINT reported the performance and other issues of the company, answered the questions raised by the investors present at the briefing, and replied to the concerns of small and medium-sized investors on the Internet.   The road show center of SSE InfoNet provided the platform service and the network support for the performance briefing of CHINT. Previously, Gui Minjie had put forward the proposal of “Providing Service for Listed Companies Carrying out Investor Relation Management at SSE Trading Floor” at the press conference during the NPC and CPPCC sessions. The performance briefing held by CHINT at the SSE trading floor was regarded as the implementation of the proposed effort by the SSE.   The relevant official of the SSE said that the move aimed to serve listed companies as well as investors in the securities market, and provide a channel for the communication between companies and investors. The SSE will sustain the effort, in a bid to further improve the investor relation management and the information disclosure transparency of listed companies. In fact, since Chengdu B-Ray Media Co., Ltd. held its performance briefing through the online platform and hardware facilities of SSE InfoNet for the first time on February 5, 2013, the SSE has gradually propelled, in the on-site or online form, the work of listed companies’ holding performance briefings and cash dividend distribution briefings.   The SSE official also stressed that the SSE’s facilitation for holding the above-mentioned performance briefings was the service provided by it for listed companies and investors. The service would not affect any performance briefing, as the remarks made by listed companies at performance briefings only reflected their positions. Investors should make rational decisions upon prudent judgment, so as to prevent investment risks.   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

Q&A on Provisional Measures for Investor Suitability Management
27 Mar 2013
Q&A on Provisional Measures for Investor Suitability Management (2013-03-27) An official of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) made marks in an interview about the “SSE Provisional Measures for Investor Suitability Management” (the “Measures”) promulgated and put into force on March 26. Q: What is the range of application of the Measures? A: When the securities companies provide the investors with the products and relevant services of the SSE market, the Measures shall be applicable. To be specific: Firstly, the Measures are applicable for the existing products or services of the SSE on which the investor suitability management has been imposed, such as margin trading and securities lending, SME private bonds, bond repo trading, bond collateralized quotation repo trading, agreed repo-style securities trading, and warrant. If there are more specific provisions of related products and business rules for investor suitability management, the relevant specific provisions should also be observed. Secondly, the Measures are applicable to the new products or services to be developed and identified by the SSE in the future. To meet the investors’ differentiated needs for investment, the SSE will develop and provide the products or services with relatively complicated structures and certain risks for the investors in the future. These products or services are not suitable for all investors. When providing the investors with such products or services, the securities companies shall implement the suitability management in compliance with the provisions of the Measures. Q: What is your opinion on the relationship of application between the Measures and the provisions for investor suitability management in other business rules of the SSE as well as the related provisions of the Securities Association of China (SAC)? A: The application of the Measures shall strike a balance in the relationship not only with the provisions for investor suitability management in other business rules of the SSE but also with the related provisions of the SAC. On the one hand, as the overarching rules of the SSE for investor suitability management, the Measures were formulated by the SSE in accordance with the requirements of the China Securities Regulatory Commission for investor suitability management and on the basis of summarizing and digesting the provisions related to the investor suitability management in the existing business rules by considering the development of the SSE. In accordance with the principles set in the Measures and the features of specific products and businesses, the SSE may formulate the corresponding guidance for the investor suitability management of specific products or services. Therefore, when providing the products or services of the SSE market for the investors, the securities companies shall comply with both the provisions of the Measures and the specific guidance specially formulated for the products or services in implementing the suitability management. On the other hand, as the principle-style provisions for the investor suitability management on the SSE market, the Measures are consistent with the spirits of the relevant provisions of the SAC but with different focuses. The Measures mainly set the principles for the investor suitability management on the SSE market, highlight the services provided by the SSE for the main market players such as the securities companies and investors, and make clear the self-regulatory measures, without any provisions for such issues as the suitability matching of the securities companies for investors and products or services and the risks disclosure. When providing the investors with the products of the SSE market or the related services, the securities companies shall comply with the Measures and the related provisions of the SAC. Q: As the Measures find provisions on both the investor admittance and the investor suitability management, how do you understand the relationship between the two factors? A: On the one hand, in order to protect the legitimate rights and interests of the investors, the Measures make it clear that the SSE may set the conditions that the investors participating in the trading of related products or services on the SSE market should meet, such as the financial situation and the level of the knowledge of securities investment. The investors failing to meet the corresponding conditions are not able to participate in the trading of the related products or services. The Measures also stipulate that the securities companies shall decline to provide corresponding products or services for the investors failing to meet the conditions for accessing the products or services set by relevant laws, administrative regulations and rules, and the business rules of the SSE. On the other hand, when the investors qualified for the relevant access conditions participate in the trading of the SSE market, in order to ensure that the securities companies provide them with the suitable products or services, the Measures stipulate that the securities companies shall implement the investor suitability management in such aspects as “learning about the relevant situations of the investor and assessing his or her risk tolerance”. When an investor requires the securities company to provide products or services, the securities company shall warn the investor of the risks when holding that the product or service is beyond the investor’s risk tolerance; the securities companies shall require the investors insisting on the provision to sign the “letter of commitment” to commit to bearing the investment risks on their own. The Measures with such provisions not only make it clear that the securities companies shall fulfill the obligation of the investor suitability management but also stick to the principle of “caveat emptor” on the premise of respecting the investors’ rights for making their own decisions. Q: How do the Measures stipulate securities companies’ obligations of fulfilling the investor suitability management? A: The Measures stipulate securities companies’ obligations of fulfilling the investor suitability management for diversified investors on the basis of classifying investors, so that securities companies could fulfill the obligations pertinently and better protect legal rights and interest of small and medium-sized investors. First, in light of the characteristics of the investor structure of the domestic capital market, the Measures divide investors into professional investors and ordinary investors by fully considering financial conditions, securities investment knowledge, risk tolerance, and other factors of investors. Professional investors include commercial banks, securities and futures agencies, insurance agencies, trust companies, fund management companies, finance companies, QFIIs, and other professional institutions, as well as their branches, plus the institutions or individuals that meet the conditions stipulated in the SSE business rules or other rules, and get approvals from securities companies upon application for professional investors. The rest are ordinary investors. Based on the investors’ classification, the Measures also stipulate that securities companies shall fulfill different obligations of investor suitability management for different investors. While providing the most comprehensive protection of investor suitability for ordinary investors, the Measures exempt securities companies from the obligations of fulfilling the investor suitability management for professional investors. However, securities companies should still fully disclose risks to the institutions or individuals that meet the conditions stipulated in the SSE business rules or other rules and get approvals from securities companies upon application for professional investors, and sign the “Letter for Risk Disclosure” with them. Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE Boosts Assets Securitization
27 Mar 2013
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) announced on March 26 that it decided to provide transfer service for asset-backed securities, which would be temporarily exempted from the fee related to their listing, in a bid to regulate the transfer of asset-backed securities and propel the growth of the assets securitization business. In the relevant notice, the SSE stated that the securities companies, which apply for listing and transfer of asset-backed securities on the SSE, should submit the following documents: the listing application letter, the issuance approval document issued by the relevant regulatory authority, the certificate of the actually-raised amount of asset-backed securities, the remark document on the special plan, the legal opinion letter, the certificate of registration and custody of asset-backed securities, and others required by the SSE. If the SSE agrees to provide transfer service for asset-backed securities, the manager of the special plan should sign the “Agreement on Transfer Service for Asset-backed Securities” with the SSE. The SSE will not make any judgment on or provide any guarantee for investment risks or incomes of asset-backed securities in its transfer service. Investors should judge and assume the investment risks concerned by themselves. The SSE temporarily charges no fee for the listing of asset-backed securities, but it will charge handling fee for the transfer of asset-backed securities with reference to that for the corporate bonds transferred on the SSE fixed income platform. Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE Fuels Investor Suitability Management
27 Mar 2013
The “SSE Provisional Measures on Investor Suitability Management” (the “Provisional Measures” for short) is released and implemented. The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) released and implemented the “SSE Provisional Measures on Investor Suitability Management” on March 26 for guiding investors to rationally participate in securities investment and protecting their legal rights and interests, with an aim of implementing the requirements of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) for investor suitability management, regulating the investor suitability management on the SSE market, and strengthening the protection for legal rights and interests of investors under the backdrop of the acceleration of product and business innovation. There are in total 20 articles in 4 chapters in the “Provisional Measures”, which prescribes the main content in the investor suitability management work on the SSE market from the perspective of the exchange’s self-disciplinary management and service. The “Provisional Measures” has pointed out the purpose of its formulation, the scope of its application, and the principle of “Let the buyer beware” on the part of the investors. It has also clarified the content of investor suitability management, the setting of market-entry conditions for investors, the classification of investors, the requirements for securities companies in terms of the implementation of investor suitability management, as well as put more emphasis on providing education, risk disclosure, and others for the investors with newly opened accounts and those participating in the trading of new shares or new businesses. The “Provisional Measures” has also prescribed that the SSE should build and improve the system of investor suitability management for investors on the SSE market, guide and supervise securities companies in terms of the implementation of investor suitability management, launch education programs and risk alerts for investors, and provide educational services for them in all kinds of ways. Moreover, the “Provisional Measures” has stated that the SSE is supposed to regulate and check the investor suitability management of securities companies, and impose relevant regulatory measures or disciplinary punishments on the securities companies violating the SSE’s rules on investor suitability management. The release and implementation of the “Provisional Measures” will be conducive to protecting the rights and interests of investors fundamentally, ensuring the steady progress of the securities industry’s innovative development, as well as facilitating the maturation of China’s capital market. It is also learnt that the SSE will drive the implementation of the “Provisional Measures” in the following three aspects, for the purpose of the overall enhancement of the investor suitability management on the SSE market. First, the SSE will constantly improve the system of investor suitability management on the SSE market by fully considering the requirements for investor suitability in design of schemes and formulation of rules, particularly for new products and businesses, and fixing details for the investor suitability management. Second, the SSE will provide pertinent services for securities companies and investors. Third, the SSE will improve the supervision over its members in terms of the investor suitability management work. Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE Holds Symposium on Implementation of Requirements at NPC, CPPCC Meetings
19 Mar 2013
More efforts will be made to give returns to investors and support reinforced rationalization of listed companies.   On March 18, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held a symposium on implementing the requirements put forward at the NPC and CPPCC meetings as well as propelling the SSE’s tasks, in a bid to learn and carry out the requirements put forward at the NPC and CPPCC meetings, in the government work report, and at the press conference of the new Premier Li Keqiang, boost the innovative growth and risk prevention of the capital market, and enhance the capital market’s capacity of serving the real economy. Li Mingshan, General Manager of Haitong Securities, Gu Weiguo, General Manager of Galaxy Securities, Chen Geng, General Manager of Guotai Junan Securities, Lan Rong, Board Chairman of Industrial Securities, Chu Xiaoming, SWS President & CEO, Lin Chuanhui, General Manager of GF Fund Management, Li Daobin, General Manager of BOCIM, Qiu Guogen, Board Chairman of Chongyang Investment Management, and Chen Jiwu, General Manager of V.stone Investment Management, told their thoughts after learning the requirements put forward at the NPC and CPPCC meetings with SSE President Huang Hongyuan, SSE Vice President Liu Shi’an, and other heads of the SSE. After that, the SSE’s tasks of 2013 were announced at the symposium. Also participating in the symposium were the journalists from major media such as People’s Daily, Xinhua News Agency, China Securities Journal, Shanghai Securities News, and Securities Times, as well as China Business News.   At the beginning of this year, the Party Committee and the President’s Office of the SSE arranged the symposium on announcement on the SSE’s yearly tasks, in a bid to implement the requirements put forward at the 18th National Congress of the CPC. The symposium could also be regarded as a response to the promise of holding a special symposium for the market and media after completion of the NPC and CPPCC meetings, which was made by SSE Governor Gui Minjie when he answered the question about the SSE’s tasks of 2013 at the press conference arranged for the NPC and CPPCC meetings. On March 7, the SSE’s official micro-blog (“SSE Release”) opened the column for the unanswered questions due to the time limit at the press conference arranged for the NPC and CPPCC meetings and answered these questions one by one (The press conference of SSE Governor Gui Minjie was held on March 6), which showed the SSE’s practical work style of continuously reinforcing its transparency.   All the attendees at the symposium held that the NPC and CPPCC meetings summed up China’s outstanding achievements and valuable merits in all the undertakings over the past 5 years, deployed an array of major tasks at the next stage, and provided significant guarantees for the realization of the tasks fixed at the 18th National Congress of the CPC and the promotion of the Reform and Opening-up as well as the construction of Socialist Modernization. Chairman Xi Jinping re-elaborated the “China’s Dream” characterized by national prosperity, ethnic revival, and mass happiness, and put forward an array of aspirations, expectations, promises, and responsibilities, which inspired all the masses in the country. Besides, Premier Li Keqiang announced the new government’s impressive administrative concepts of adhering to the market-oriented reform and building an enhanced version of China’s economic growth.   It was pointed out at the symposium that the government work report made this year was the shortest over the past ten years, while the report, with more specific and practical issues mentioned, further showed its highlights. Unprecedentedly, the report mentioned the reform and growth of the capital market for 4 times.   The symposium also held that in recent years, the SSE has made a lot of achievements in the following aspects by adhering to the concept of the market growth serving the real economy and boosting all the reforms and innovative measures. First, the market system has been gradually rationalized as the multi-tiered blue chip market, characterized by typical, rising and promising companies, has been built by the SSE. Second, the market’s functions have been elevated as a batch of medium and large-sized enterprises have accomplished issuance and listing in the SSE market. Besides, more and more listed companies have completed mergers, acquisitions, and reorganizations through the capital market, which have contributed to the development transformation, restructuring, quality improvement, and efficiency increase of the national economy. Third, breakthroughs have been made in the aspect of the market innovation. Great pains have been taken to innovate the trading mechanism, and fuel innovative tasks such as margin trading and securities lending, block trading, collateralized quotation repo of bonds, and agreed repurchase securities trading, which has contributed to achieving good market effects. Fourth, the market return has remarkably increased, as listed companies have been urged to build sustainable, steady, scientific, and transparent systems of dividend distribution and been guided to improve their cash dividend distribution by formulating the guidelines for cash dividend distribution and others.   The government work report also put forward high expectations and requirements for the capital market’s capacity of serving the real economy. It was mentioned in the report that efforts should be made to develop more financing channels for the real economy, lower financing costs of the real economy, propel the financial system reform, and rationalize the modern financial system conducive to the real economy’s growth. While facing the questions at the press conference about dividend distribution through the reform and the reform’s highlights at the next stage after the reinforcement of the reform, Premier Li Keqiang answered that in the financial field, we should develop the multi-tiered capital market, elevate the proportion of direct financing, and protect legal rights and interest of investors, especially those of small and medium-sized investors. Li’s answer gave more specific and pertinent requirements for the reform and growth of the capital market at the next stage, and the size, functions, and serving capacity of the capital market still have great potentials.   The attendees at the symposium said that while mentioning the continuous implementation of the stable and sound currency policy, the NPC and CPPCC meetings and the government work report put forward the concept of building a stable and sound capital market. For the first time, the government work report takes the capital market as one of the service targets of the currency policy. This has fully marked the reinforced role of the capital market in the national economy. The real economy is the fundamental of the capital market, while the high-efficient and multi-tiered capital market could provide powerful support for the real economy and better serve the real economy. All the attendees were confident for the capital market, as they reached a consensus that the new government’s 3 major tasks, namely sustainable economic growth, continuous improvement of people’s livelihood, and promotion of social fairness, have given a correct direction and created a good environment for the capital market’s growth.   　　Source: Securities Times  

SSE to Fuel 2013 “1+5” Major Tasks
19 Mar 2013
The SSE will contribute to increasing returns to investors and supporting reinforced rationalization of listed companies by launching a series of service-oriented activities for innovative practices.   On March 18, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held a symposium on implementing the requirements put forward at the NPC and CPPCC meetings as well as propelling the SSE’s tasks, with a view to implementing the requirements put forward at the 18th National Congress of the CPC as well as the NPC and CPPCC meetings, and building the capital market which supports reinforced rationalization of listed companies, brings good returns to investors, and serves the real economy. The SSE’s major tasks of 2013 were announced at the symposium as well. SSE President Huang Hongyuan said that the SSE would spare no efforts to propel “1+5”major tasks in 2013.   “1+5” major tasks will be propelled in 2013.   Specifically, “1” means safe operation. The government work report required to “guard the bottom line of zero systematic and regional financial crises” and “guide the stable and sound operation of financial institutions and strengthen the regulation on partial and regional risks as well as risks in off-balance sheet businesses of financial institutions for enhancing the financial industry’s sustainability of supporting the economic growth.” It is the exchange’s fundamental task to ensure the safe operation of the exchange market and prevent from systematic risks.   On the other hand, “5” refers to the five aspects including the new products and businesses of the multi-tiered blue chip market, the bond market, and funds, as well as the reinforcement of the SSE’s internationalization and the building of the institutional-investor-oriented service platform.   First, the SSE will continue to propel the construction for the multiple-level blue chip market, and support the issuance and listing of large-sized backbone enterprises, leading companies from segment markets, and quality companies from the technological innovation industry, the culture and creativity industries, and other emerging industries, as well as the advanced manufacturing industry and the modern services industry. Meanwhile, it will support reinforced rationalization of listed companies through simplifying procedures for merger, acquisition, and reorganization, as well as refinancing. The SSE will also improve information disclosure and fully implement the direct channel for information disclosure by adopting the basic principle of looser control and tighter regulation. In addition, listed companies will be urged and guided to attach great importance to returns to investors, and build a sustainable, stable and predictable mechanism for dividend distribution, so that a comparatively reasonable and sound evaluation mechanism could be formed on the market. And the SSE will propel to build the new mechanism characterized with business performance promotion meetings and briefings for significant issues, and it will explore to build a road show center for listed companies on the SSE’s trading floor, thus improving the communication and exchange with investors. Besides, the SSE will improve the level and effect of its service for investors, and boost the interaction between listed companies and investors through the “SSE Interaction Platform for Listed Companies and Investors”, “Monthly Q&A”, “Face-to-face Talks”, as well as online trainings and testing services.   Second, the SSE will accelerate the reform and innovative development of the bond market by modifying rules for bonds, integrating trade systems, and rationalizing the systems for rating, evaluation, credit enhancement, issuance and transaction, as well as market makers. Moreover, it will vigorously develop corporate bonds, make breakthroughs in the pre-issuance of treasury bonds and the development of financial institutions’ bonds, steadily promote the growth of SMEs private placement bonds, and develop new products including one-on-one repurchase of bonds.   Third, the SSE will boost the rapid growth of funds and other new products and businesses, and facilitate the soaring development of new businesses including quotation repo, margin trading and securities lending, and collateralized repo of stocks, with an aim to build a layout of ETF products linked with stocks, bonds, gold, foreign exchanges, commodities, and currencies. Besides, it will optimize the innovation mechanism, realize quotation repo on a regular basis and pilot securities lending of refinancing, and launch collateralized repo of stocks, ETF repo, and others, according to the basic requirements of simplifying procedures and stabilizing expectations. Finally, the SSE will complete the business scheme, rule system, and technological preparation for individual stock options, as well as expand the scope of the simulated trading.   Fourth, the SSE will probe into a variety of ways to improve its internationalization by building diversified, convenient, and low-cost service channels for investors worldwide, as well as launching an array of activities for international exchanges and market promotion. In addition, it will speed up the development for cross-boarder ETF products, and continuously expand the scope for the cooperation with overseas index institutions, with an aim of developing the products covering all the major overseas capital markets.   Fifth, the SSE will accelerate the building of the institutional-investor-oriented service platform. This year, the SSE will take the lead in establishing an institutional-investor-oriented service platform, with an aim of providing more products, easier trading ways, and a more convenient service platform for them. It is learnt that the institutional-investor-oriented service platform will perform an array of basic functions including unified internet access, registration, information release, negotiation on retrieval, products transfer, online payment, products rating, which will be conducive to breaking down the barriers among the platforms of financial products, supporting the growth of institutional investors, lowering investors’ costs for platform access and trading, and providing “one-stop” comprehensive services for institutional investors.   　　Source: Securities Times  

Notice of Issues about Participation of Shares with Sales Limit and Stock Shares with Terminated Sales Limit in Listed Companies in Margin Trading, Securities Lending
18 Mar 2013
All member units and other market participants,   Upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby releases the following notice of issues about participation of shares with sales limit and stock shares with terminated sales limit in listed companies in margin trading and securities lending, in a bid to further specify issues about margin trading and securities lending as well as regulate the relevant business management.   1. While providing services about margin trading and securities lending for investors, the SSE’s members should require the investors to submit information about shares with sales limit and stock shares with terminated sales limit held by them, and other information such as whether they hold positions of directors, supervisors, and senior executives in listed companies or not. Afterwards, members should verify the information submitted by investors and conduct front control on them.   2. Investors should not submit shares with sales limit in listed companies held by their ordinary securities accounts as collaterals.   3. Individual investors should not submit stock shares with terminated sales limit in listed companies held by them as collaterals. In terms of consolidated calculation of the number of the institutional investors’ stock shares with terminated sales limit in listed companies sold via the SSE auction trading system through credit securities accounts (only including sale of collaterals, sale of repayment by selling securities, and sale by forced liquidation) and ordinary securities accounts, as well as those used for direct repayment of securities, the institutional investors should abide by relevant rules of the CSRC and the SSE about lessening holding of stock shares with terminated sales limit for transfer.   The SSE’s members should take proper measures so that relevant shares transfers meet requirements. If institutional investors take stock shares with terminated sales limit in listed companies as margins, members should cement risks control and rationalize the business management concerned, in a bid to prevent the risks of the margin trading and securities lending business.   4. The SSE’s members should not submit shares with sales limit held by their ordinary securities accounts as resources for securities lending. In terms of consolidated calculation of the number of the members’ stock shares with terminated sales limit in listed companies lent to investors and sold through the SSE auction trading system, the members should abide by relevant rules of the CSRC and the SSE about lessening holding of stock shares with terminated sales limit for transfer.   5. Any investor who holds shares with sales limit in listed companies should not sell the shares for short selling.   6. Any director, supervisor, and senior executive in a listed company, as well as any shareholder who holds more than 5% shares in a listed company should not conduct margin trading and securities lending with the shares in their listed company as underlying securities.   7. The SSE’s member should remind their clients of conforming to the voting-avoiding rule for related issues, while soliciting voting opinions from their clients.   8. The stock shares mentioned in the notice refers to the following two kinds of shares as regulated in the "Guidance Opinion on Transfer of Stock Shares with Terminated Sales Limit in Listed Companies" (the CSRC Announcement [2008] No. 15).   (1). The SSE-listed shares, with certain sales limit periods, in the companies which have completed the equity division reform;   (2). The shares issued before the initial public offering of the companies listed on the SSE after the period of “complete separation of new shares from the old ones”.   9. The directors, supervisors, and senior executives in listed companies mentioned in the notice refer to those holding or leaving their positions in the companies who have been imposed on restrictive requirements for transfer of their shares in the companies, as regulated in the "Management Measures of Shares in Listed Company Held by Directors, Supervisors and Senior Management and Change of These Shares" (Zheng Jian Gong Si Zi [2007] No. 56).   　　Source:Shanghai Stock Exchange  

Communication Strengthened to Foster Awareness of Being Shareholders
15 Mar 2013
Online voting of the SSE’s activity themed with “I’m a shareholder” launched on March 18   The 5th session of awarding ceremony for the investor education work and the launching ceremony of the activity themed with “I’m a shareholder” in 2013 were held by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) recently. Among those attending the two ceremonies were the official of the Investor Protection Bureau of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and SSE Vice President Liu Shi’an.   Online voting, registration, and question solicitation of the activity above will be available for investors on March 18. They may vote for the SSE-listed companies which they most want to visit on the SSE’s investor education website.   It is learnt that there are three highlights in the SSE’s activity themed with “I’m a shareholder: small and medium-sized investors’ visits to listed companies”, which aims to urge investors to foster their awareness of being shareholders, improve their initiative in exercising shareholders’ rights, and advocate the concepts of rational investment and value investing.   The first highlight is the online general election. It will be the first activity in the world that generates the listed companies to be investigated and visited through small and medium-sized investors’ voting, and conducts online registration for on-site surveys. Investors may, with regard to hot issues on the market, vote for the SSE-listed companies to which they most want to pay a visit through the investor education website (http://edu.sse.com.cn). The listed companies to be investigated on the spot will be chosen according to the number of votes in the online general election, and the participants of on-site surveys will be selected from the investors who have participated in the voting.   The second highlight lies in the multi-channel interaction. Apart from facilitating face-to-face communication between investors and senior management members of listed companies, the SSE will also enable off-site investors to have real-time participation in the interaction with listed companies with the help of media including TV, Internet, and radio stations, thus enlarging the scope for participation on the part of investors and substantially improving their initiative in exercising shareholders’ rights.   The third highlight consists in its lasting influence. On the one hand, the SSE will launch multi-phases of activities to lead more investors to actually “go to” listed companies; on the other hand, after each of these activities, the SSE will send in-time and dynamic feedbacks of each visiting activity and interview to investors by continuously utilizing channels including member units’ business departments, websites, TV stations, and journals, with an aim to form a variety of derivative contents and services.   At the launching ceremony, Liu Shi’an said that as the protection for investors is critical to the reform, innovation, and perfection of the capital market, legal rights and interests of investors are expected to be protected through concerted efforts from all sides on the market. Besides, he put forward the following hopes: securities companies would fully explain about products and reveal relevant risks to their clients, strictly implement the investor suitability management, and provide individualized and diversified services; listed companies would further improve the investor relation management, constantly enhance their transparency, and rationalize their corporate governance; media would continue to build a good public atmosphere that facilitates the claims for shareholders’ rights and protection for investors; investors would further cultivate the consciousness of shareholders’ rights, and improve their professional knowledge and capability for judgment and self-protection.   As participants in the activity sponsored by the SSE in 2012 for small and medium-sized investors to visit listed companies, Wang Jianzhang, Secretary to Directorate of SAIC Motor Corporation Limited, and Zheng Yuping, Party Chief of NARI Technology Development Limited Company, said in their speeches that their companies attached great importance to the investor relation management and the protection work of investors, and their companies will continue to communicate with investors by various ways according to relevant rules and regulations.   In the recent years, the SSE has put great emphasis on the service work of investors. In terms of the building of systems, it has, based on the actual situation on the market, successively promulgated an array of regulatory documents related to the supervision on new shares, the investor relation management, dividend distribution, and other aspects, so as to consolidate the systematical foundation of investor-oriented services; in terms of building online communication platforms, among others, it has held the performance briefing of Chengdu B-Ray Media Co., Ltd. in 2012 and the cash dividend distribution briefing of Guizhou Changzhen Electrical Apparatus Co., Ltd. in 2012 by way of on-site and online synchronized interaction.   Moreover, the SSE also held the 5th session of awarding ceremony for the investor education work, which commended the securities companies making outstanding achievements in aspects including guidance for rational investment in 2012.   　　Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE 5-Year Credit Bond Index To Be Launched
08 Mar 2013
Designed to serve as new investable benchmark for bond investors as well as to promote innovation of China bond market, CSI today announced the upcoming launch of SSE 5-Year Credit Bond index on Apr. 1st 2013. This index is composed of credit bonds trading in SSE whose corporate credit rating are AA grade or above ，term to maturity between 4 and 7 years and outstanding above 0.8 billion. The base date is December 31st, 2007. The base index is100.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 　　2013-3-8 SSE 5-Year Credit Bond Index Methodology Constituents List  

SSE Governor: System of Decentralizing Refinancing Examination being Studied
07 Mar 2013
On the afternoon of March 6, the deputies to the NPC and the members of the CPPCC National Committee coming from the system of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) held the first press conference, at which Gui Minjie, Member of the CPPCC National Committee and Governor of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), answered the questions raised by journalists at home and abroad. Gui: System of Decentralizing Refinancing Examination being Studied The building of the blue-chip market will be driven in five aspects, in a bid to increase its appeal and investment value. Efforts will be made to study the feasibility of two-way listing and trading on the SSE and the Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (HKEx). Yesterday, Gui said at the press conference held by the CSRC that the SSE had been studying the system and scheme of decentralizing refinancing examination, and it had taken the preparations for and implementation of the adjustment to the refinancing examination system as one of the major tasks of 2013. The SSE adopted the innovative live broadcast through its official micro-blog at the press conference. It was an important move made by the SSE for transparency, according to Gui. Preparations are being made for decentralizing refinancing examination. For the question of what preparations have been made for decentralizing refinancing examination put forward by the Shanghai Securities News, Gui said that the SSE had been cooperating with the CSRC in studying the system and scheme about this issue, with rules, technologies, and personnel involved. Besides, the SSE had taken the preparations for and implementation of the adjustment to the refinancing examination system as one of the major tasks of 2013. Namely, it will study, rationalize, and optimize the procedures for refinancing examination, as well as cut the examination time, simplify and publicize the examination standards, processes, and progresses, with an aim of building a market-oriented refinancing examination system. Gui added that refinancing, one of the key financing way in the capital market, is of great significance for listed companies. Public additional issuance, public issuance, private placement, and other refinancing ways could meet different needs of companies. The examination on the refinancing of the listed companies which disclose information continuously should be differentiated from that on IPOs, as proper adjustment to the examination mechanism is necessary. Refinancing involves a lot of issues, so the adjustment to refinancing examination should face questions such as how to reduce substantive judgments, give full play to the role of SMEs in decision-making, and enhance the quality of information disclosure. It is imperative to amend the “Securities Law”. Gui said that the existing “Securities Law” was amended in 2005. However, some parts of the “Securities Law” have been incompatible with the market growth as the market has witnessed the rapid development in recent years. For instance, a lot of emerging derivatives are not mentioned in the “Securities Law”, which targets at the public market, especially the public issuance market. Nevertheless, the private placement market should also be regulated by law. Moreover, the “Securities Law” had little regulation on the bond market on the whole, so it had not met the needs of bond market development. Gui added that although regulatory authorities were reinforcing the punishment on violations in the market, the regulation work was impeded due to the low costs of violations and the improper regulation system. “A professional police force and a specialized law enforcement team should be fostered to crack down on crimes on the securities market. We should fight against crimes including finance-related criminal offences and civil tort. It is also worth discussing on whether we could build the relevant professional courts,” said Gui, who hoped that the amendment to the “Securities Law” would solve the problem. The building of the blue-chip market will be driven in five aspects. Gui stressed that the SSE would continue to propel the construction of the blue-chip market, in a bid to increase its appeal and investment value. Specifically, importance should be attached to the following five aspects. First, the market promotion and service should be strengthened, so that more companies would be willing to be listed on the SSE. Second, more products and tools should be released, especially those related to financing. More breakthroughs should be made by way of equity financing, debt financing, merge and acquisition, equity pledge, and others. Third, diversified indices should be compiled, and more ETF products should be developed on the basis of these indices. Fourth, enterprises, especially large blue-chip companies, should elevate their corporate governance. Fifth, in a proper time, large blue-chip companies should be urged to initiatively release individual stock options on the institutional-investor-oriented service platform for institutional investors’ hedging and arbitrage. Efforts will be made to study the feasibility of two-way listing and trading on the SSE and the HKEx. For the question of how the SSE and the HKEx further their cooperation, Gui said that the SSE had been drawing on merits from overseas markets including the HKEx. Last year, the SSE and the HKEx cooperated in an array of issues such as establishing a joint-venture company, releasing cross-border ETFs with the Hang Seng China Enterprise Index (HSCEI) as the underlying, and holding seminars on index compilation. Gui revealed that both sides were studying the mutual custody of the two exchange’s data and the promotion of unifying the industry classification standard for China’s listed companies. Next, the feasibility of two-way listing and trading on the two exchanges will be studied as well. The SSE will launch 12 major tasks in 2013. Gui said that like the national economy, the SSE market was facing the challenge of speeding up reform and realizing transformational development. Next, the SSE will fuel the innovation, reform, and opening-up of the main board market, and contribute to the marketization, legal construction, globalization, and transparency. The 12 major tasks to be carried out by the SSE are as follows. (1) The direct channel for information disclosure will be carried out by stage. (2) The new delisting system will be strictly implemented. (3) Listed companies will be urged and guided to distribute dividends and give returns to investors, so that the market’s investment function and financing function will be further balanced. (4) The SSE will further participate in regional over-the-counter markets, as it is negotiating with some districts, cities, and provinces. (5) The SSE will complete the institutional-investor-oriented service platform, namely, an open pan-finance over-the-counter private placement market supporting the registration and issuance, trading and transfer, business marketing, and information communication of all the innovative financial products. (6) The SSE will boost the rapid growth of new products and businesses, expand the scales of new businesses including quotation repo, margin trading and securities lending, and collateralized repo of stocks, realize quotation repo on a regular basis and pilot securities lending of refinancing, launch collateralized repo of stocks, ETF repo, and others, as well as speed up the cross-boarder ETF product development. (7) The SSE will launch individual stock options, expand the pilot scope of the SSE members’ simulated trading in the auction trading system, perfect all the tasks including the business scheme, rule system, and risk control system of individual stock options, and it will initiatively release individual stock options on the institutional-investor-oriented service platform. (8) Efforts will be made to prepare for and implement the adjustment to the refinancing examination system. (9) The SSE will comb all business rules, simplify business procedures, and cut trading costs, in an effort to build a rule system conducive to improving the efficiency of the market operation. (10) The exchange system reform will be propelled in a steady way. In detail, the SSE will make in-depth research on fundamental and profound problems such as the property ownership, equity framework, and governance structure of the exchange, as well as specify the scheme of the exchange system reform and do the relevant publicity work in the market. (11) The “All-round Service” concept will be cemented. The exchange, as a financial service agency, will reinforce its original function. (12) The SSE will boost the internationalization by enhancing its service capacity, channel building, and market construction for investors worldwide. For details, please refer to the SSE’s official micro-blog (“SSE Release”). Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE Governor’s Proposal: Prompt Amendment to “Securities Law”
06 Mar 2013
Both the amendment work of the “Securities Law” and the formulation work of the “Futures Law” should be listed into the legislative regulation and the 2013 legislation work plan of the 12th NPC, in a bid to launch the amendment procedures for the “Securities Law” and the formulation procedures for the “Futures Law” as soon as possible. Gui Minjie, Member of the CPPCC National Committee and Governor of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), submitted the proposal of prompt launch of amendment to the “Securities Law” and that of boosting the formulation work of the “Futures Law” to the 1st session of the 12th NPC recently. Gui suggested that the amendment work of the “Securities Law” and the formulation work of the “Futures Law” should be listed into the legislative regulation and the 2013 legislation work plan of the 12th NPC, in a bid to launch the amendment procedures for the “Securities Law” and the formulation procedures for the “Futures Law” as soon as possible. The Chinese capital market has witnessed an array of innovations, rapid growth, and great changes over the past years, while the transformation from an emerging market to a mature one is being accelerated as well. However, the “Securities Law” has lagged behind the innovation and development of the market considerably since its enactment in 2005. It is required that the “Securities Law” should keep pace with the era. The reform of the share issuance market consistently boosted calls for an amendment to the securities issuance system in the “Securities Law”. The securities business innovation in rapid growth calls for looser regulation by the “Securities Law”. The unbalanced growth of the bond market calls for an all-round arrangement by the “Securities Law”. The multi-tiered over-the-counter markets diversified continuously calls for a response from the “Securities Law”. The booming securities private placement market calls for rationalization by the “Securities Law”. The reform of the exchange systems unremittingly propelled calls for systematical arrangement of the “Securities Law”. Finally, the ongoing promotion of the capital market’s opening-up and cross-border supervision calls for legal support from the “Securities Law”. Gui suggested that led by the relevant authorities of the NPC, with the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) involved as well, surveys on amending the “Securities Law” should be made by way of visiting, questionnaire, statistics, and others. Especially, efforts should be made to study the profound problems affecting the innovation and growth of the capital market, such as the public issuance systems of securities, the regulation on securities private placement, the development of the bond market, the construction of over-the-counter markets, the regulation on unlisted companies, and the market’s opening-up, so as to specify the orientation and highlights of amending the “Securities Law”. Besides, a drafting team of the “Securities Law (Proposal Draft for Amendment)” should be established. Namely, all walks of life should be guided to study the amendment to and perfection of the “Securities Law”, in a bid to work out the “Securities Law (Proposal Draft for Amendment)” according to relevant research fruits. On the other hand, the Chinese futures market has experienced a period of soaring innovation and amazing growth in recent years, while the "Regulations on Administration of Futures Trading" (the "Regulations” for short) has been dominating over the Chinese futures market. Nevertheless, the "Regulations", of which order of law and effect are not enough, can not meet with the further legal requirements put forward for the innovative and standardized growth of the futures market. In the Chinese futures market, the transformation from quantitative changes to qualitative ones needs legal support from the “Futures Law”, which will also define the difference between the regulation on securities and that on futures. Gui also suggested that led by the relevant authorities of the NPC, with the CSRC involved as well, further surveys on the formulation of the “Futures Law” should be conducted. Particularly, more endeavors should be made to survey the fundamental contents of the “Futures Law”, such as the purpose and the scope of legislation, the relevant systems of futures exchanges, the futures intermediaries and service providers, the basic rules for futures trading and settlement, the risk control and management, the protection of investors’ rights and interests, the futures associations, the management on futures regulation, and the legal responsibilities. Moreover, a drafting team of the “Futures Law (Proposal Draft)” should be established to make in-depth research and detailed argumentation on the “Futures Law (Draft)” to be worked out by the NPC and the CSRC, after which the “Futures Law (Draft)” will go through an overall amendment with reference to relevant research achievements. Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE and CSI Dividend Return Index To be Launched
05 Mar 2013
To further enhance the index family as well as to provide new analysis tools and underlying instruments for investors, SSE and CSI today announced that SSE Dividend Return Index and CSI Dividend Return Index to be launched on Mar 27, 2013. Regarding the methodology and more details of the above indices, please refer to the official website of SSE (www.sse.com.cn) and CSI (www.csindex.com.cn).       Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. Mar 5, 2013  Appendix 1 Constituents List

Real Estate Control, Capital Repurchase Trigger Panic Slump: Insiders Point out Exaggerated Reading of Relevant Information
05 Mar 2013
Yesterday (March 4), the A-Share market encountered a panic slump as SSE Composite Index dropped by nearly 100 points and closed at 2,273.40 points, a decrease of 3.65%. SZSE Component Index, with a lot of real estate stocks, was even stricken by a more dramatic drop of 5.29%. In response to the sudden drop of the large-cap stocks, the Shanghai Securities News interviewed several securities experts. Generally, they hold that the sudden discharge of the drop pressure in the A-Share market resulted from the market’s exaggerated comprehension of such information as the promulgation of the “Five New State Measures on Cementing the Real Estate Control” (the “Five New State Measures” for short) and the RMB910 billion net repurchase of China's central bank last week. However, the market over-reacted to the negatives after analyzing substantial effects of relevant policies. The release of the “Five New State Measures” has limited influence in a short term, while it will benefit the real estate market in the long run. An expert holds that the release of the Detailed Rules for implementation of the “Five New State Measures” by the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development of the PRC indicated the government’s attitude of supporting owner-occupation needs, curbing house purchase for speculative investment, and cracking down on soaring house prices. Yesterday, the sector of real estate stocks witnessed a slump of 8.38%, while dozens of kinds of real estate stocks on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), including China Merchants Property Development Co., Ltd., Poly Real Estate Group Co., Ltd., China Vanke Co., Ltd., and Gemdale Corporation, reached the daily minimum trading limit, which led to a dramatic drop in the sectors of upstream industries such as the cement industry and the building material industry. Market insiders hold that the control measure released last week directly resulted in the depression of the industrial chain of real estate. Specifically, the control measure focused on levying the income tax accruing from second-hand house trading according to 20% of price spreads, which would curb second-hand house trading in a short period. However, it exerts little influence on real estate developers and the upstream industries, nor will it considerably affect the investment growth. Vice President Li Xunlei of Haitong Securities says that the “Five New State Measures” aims to increase the costs of second-hand house trading, so as to curb the speculation in the real estate market. With the control measure implemented gradually, the real estate market will tend to be rational, while active funds will leave the market for new investment channels. “In light of overseas mature markets, residents generally invest their assets in funds, stocks, bonds, and other products in the financial market. Predictably, domestic investors might transfer more funds from the real estate market to the financial market, which will be a piece of positive news for the stock market. Forthcoming promulgation of control measures on the real estate industry will speed up the rational allocation of residents’ assets,” said Li. Besides, Li says that one of the major reasons for the panic in the market is the unclear anticipation. The panic in the market for the real estate control will be alleviated after local governments issue detailed rules for the real estate control and major policies such as those for levying housing property tax are fixed. “The new real estate control aims to stabilize the market, so we need not to immerse ourselves into panic at all,” added Li Daxiao, a famous professional in the finance industry. The real estate control targets at the speculative second-hand house market, while it has limited effects on new house trading characterized by inelastic housing needs and even fuels new house trading. The listed companies in the real estate industry will benefit from the real estate control in the long run, as someone even regards the policy as a gift packet sent by the government to real estate developers. Zhang Yidong, Chief Strategy Analyst of Industrial Securities, holds that first, economic recovery still dominates over the current market situation. The new real estate control, which exceeded the market anticipation, has led to worries about the market recovery. On Monday, the panic underselling behaviors occurred in the industrial chain of real estate, after which the stock market experienced a big plunge. However, economic recovery will remain unchanged in the first half of 2013, as the new real estate control is different from the “Ten State Measures on Cementing the Real Estate Control” promulgated in 2010. House prices are not increasing on the whole, and the new policy attaches importance to controlling the future market, specifying the policy of limiting house purchase, and working out different detailed rules for all the regions, and puts emphasis on the second-hand house market. In the next 2 or 3 months, the investment in the real estate will not be decreased remarkably. Second, the new government will boost the urbanization and give away dividends of reforms. Afterwards, it is expected to accelerate the industrial investment benefiting from the infrastructure investment and the economic restructuring, while financial innovation, especially assets securitization, will drive the capital market and the economic growth, which will form a win-win situation. Third, due to the bottom-out of inventory cycle time and the pass of the peak of capacity expansion, listed companies will increase business incomes and gross margin rates this year, with their profits expected to be increased by 16%. Fourth, the blue chips represented by bank-related stocks have higher appeals for investment after adjustment. All in all, in the first half of 2013, the investment in the real estate industry will not be dramatically decreased, with the economy to be recovered slightly. Great inflationary pressure will not occur, while capital prices will face little pressure in increase. The mid-term market situation will not end probably. So, we should positively seek for opportunities at the bottom instead of being in panic. The repurchase of China’s central bank does not mean a tense policy. The RMB910 billion net repurchase of China’s central bank last week triggered worries about liquidity shrinking. On February 21, the central bank repurchased RMB20 billion in total by way of tendering of interest rate. In the last week before the Spring Festival, the central bank successively conducted reverse repurchases of RMB450 billion and RMB410 billion, which were due in the week of February 22. Thus, the repurchase of RMB860 billion was completed. On February 19, the central bank repurchased RMB30 billion after 8 months. Plus its repurchase of RMB20 billion on February 21, the net repurchase in the week of February 22 reached a record high of RMB910 billion. Liu Shengjun, Executive Vice President of CEIBS Lujiazui International Finance Research Center, says that the central bank’s move, a response to inflationary pressure in advance, aims to offset the soaring credit loans in January, which will not lead to tense liquidity in the market. “The increase of domestic credit loans in January doubled that in the same period of last year, so the central bank’s timely response to excessive loan increase could be taken as a piece of positive news. If the central bank makes adjustment when inflation data are released, that will be late,” said Liu Shengjun. Li Huiyong, Chief Macro-economy Analyst of SWS, says that the worries about the cash withdrawal of RMB910 billion in the market are resulted from the exaggerated comprehension. First, one policy will not influence the slight recovery of the macro-economy. Second, “delivering before the Spring Festival and withdrawing after that” is the central bank’s routine conduct. The central bank’s repurchase again was only the normal liquidity management after the festival, not the launch of tense policy. Rationally, the central bank released a stable currency policy, instead of a tense one. Third, this adjustment in the market will facilitate the long-term sound development and rational investment. Source: Shanghai Securities News

SSE and CSI Culture Industries Index, CSI Services Industry Index To Be Launched
05 Mar 2013
Designed to serve as new benchmarks and investable underlyings for investors, today SSE and CSI announced the upcoming launch of SSE Culture Industries Index, CSI Culture Industries Index and CSI Services Industry Index on Mar 26th 2013. Regarding the methodologies and more details about the above indices, please refer to attached. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. Mar 5th 2013 Appendix 1-3 H30068Cons H50018Cons H30074Cons

ANNOUNCEMENT ABOUT ADJUSTING CONSTITUENT UNIVERSE OF SSE ENTERPRISE BOND INDEX ETC
21 Feb 2013
 According to Security & Future industry Statistical Indicators Norm Guide issued by CSRC in January this year, China Securities Index Company decides to adjust constituent universe of SSE Enterprise Bond Index and CSI Enterprise Bond Index. The detached convertible bond and enterprise bond are excluded in the constituents. The so called corporate bond is this type of bonds which are examined and approved by CSRC. The adjustment will take effect on March 1st, 2013. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. Feb. 21th, 2013

Q&A on SSE’s Direct Channel Business
19 Feb 2013
Today, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) publishes the “SSE Business Guidelines on Direct Channel for Information Disclosure” (the “SSE Guidelines on Direct Channel” for short), and the training and implementation of the SSE’s Direct Channel business for listed companies’ information disclosure begin simultaneously. The person in charge of the SSE answers the questions on the issues concerned. Q: What is the SSE’s Direct Channel and what is the plan for its implementation? A: The SSE’s Direct Channel is an information disclosure mechanism through which all the SSE-listed companies may register and upload their documents for information disclosure by themselves and submit them directly to the SSE’s website and other designated medial for release. The SSE’s Direct Channel mechanism has the following two functions: firstly, it realizes the electronization for announcements’ registration and transmission; secondly, it realizes the registration of announcements and direct information disclosure by listed companies themselves, whereby the SSE carries out the aftermath regulation for the announcements made through the SSE’s Direct Channel without prerequisite form examinations. As for its actual implementation, the promotion process of the SSE’s Direct Channel can be divided into two stages. The first stage witnessed the launch of the SSE’s electronic system for information disclosure on December 3, 2012, which realized the electronization of the whole operational procedures of announcement registration, submission, examination, feedback, confirmation for publication, online disclosure, and media delivery after the adequate preliminary preparation. The second stage is marked by the release of the “SSE Guidelines on Direct Channel”. The SSE will launch the training for the SSE’s Direct Channel business in the near future, and it will formally implement the Direct Channel on July 1, 2013. Q: Where does the significance of the implementation of the SSE’s Direct Channel lie? A: The implementation of the SSE’s Direct Channel is conducive to further improving the market mechanism, promoting the sense of responsibility of all market participants, and perfecting the credit mechanism and responsibility system of the market. On the one side, the implementation of the SSE’s Direct Channel will strengthen the main position of the listed companies in information disclosure, thus promoting the deepening of the market-oriented operation concept on the part of the listed companies and giving full play to its initiative role in information disclosure; on the other hand, it embodies the concept of “Loosening Supervision While Tightening Regulation” by substantially reducing the prerequisite form examinations, collecting and integrating the existing regulation resources, and putting its working emphasis on the aftermath regulation, thus better protecting the legal rights and interests of investors. The implementation of the SSE’s Direct Channel can also further improve the efficiency in information disclosure and the operational efficiency of the market. With the development of the information technology and the change in the carriers for information transmission, the requirements on the speed and timeliness in obtaining of information on the part of all the market participants are becoming increasingly higher. As the direct disclosure is based on electronization and aftermath regulation, it is at a position to better meet the requirements on speed and timeliness, and create conditions for the final realization of real-time disclosure, thus enormously improving the overall operational efficiency in the capital market. The implementation of the SSE’s Direct Channel will further promote the rule of law and openness in the market. With the launch of the SSE’s Direct Channel, the regulation standards and business procedures of the information disclosure of the listed companies at the SSE will be further improved and more easily accessible to the public. All the market participants will have a clearer understanding about the relevant rules, thus ensuring better transparency in the operation of information disclosure and relevant regulation. Q: It this the best time for the implementation of the Direct Channel? A: The way of information disclosure for the companies listed at the SSE and the SSE’s regulation mode of information disclosure have been improved step by step, after more than two decades’ development of China’s securities market, and they have suited the overall environment of China’s securities market for all those years, as well as played their due role in the promotion of market fairness and the improvement of the listed companies’ quality, thus laying a solid foundation in terms of the market for the launch of the SSE’s Direct Channel. The launch of the SSE’s Direct Channel this time is based on the SSE’s overall summing-up of regulatory experience in the past, an in-depth research on the existing market conditions, as well as a full reference to the advanced experience on overseas markets, in addition to the considerations of the actual circumstances. It can be said that all of the conditions for its implementation have become matured. There are the following four main aspects: Firstly, the quality of listed companies’ information disclosure has been constantly improved. So far, the sense of responsibility, the level of internal control, and the quality for outward information disclosure on the part of the listed companies have all been remarkably improved, thus laying a solid foundation for direct information disclosure in terms of market participants. Secondly, the investors are becoming increasingly mature. As the investment concepts of investors are becoming more rational, and their ability of risk identification more strong, a strong power in terms of the external regulation is ready for direct disclosure. Thirdly, technical progresses have been made continuously. The SSE’s electronization system of information disclosure officially launched is under sound operation, which provides the technological adequacy for direct disclosure. Fourthly, the rule system for the regulation on information disclosure has been improved step by step. As rules have become increasingly transparent, requirements better stated according to standard formats, and procedures more accessible to the public, the listed companies can better grasp all the requirements for the regulation on information disclosure, which provides a solid support in terms of mechanism for direct disclosure. Q: Has the SSE made any preparations or adopted any supporting measures to ensure the smooth implementation of the SSE’s Direct Channel and protect the legal rights and interests of investors? A: With an aim to ensure the smooth implementation of the SSE’s Direct Channel and to achieve the goal of protecting the legal rights and interest of investors in the implementation above, the SSE has made preparations and conducted the supporting work in the following aspects: Firstly, it has clarified the application scope for the SSE’s Direct Channel. In principle, the SSE’s Direct Channel is applicable for all the SSE-listed companies, yet, the SSE may adjust the scope of the subjects to which it is applicable according to the quality of the information disclosed and the extent to which standard operations are carried out on the part of the listed companies. Generally speaking, the listed companies may directly disclose about 66% among all of their information to be disclosed. To be responsible to the market and in consideration for the benefit of investors, the SSE will retain its prerequisite form examinations on business operation, and significant issues including merger and reorganization, bankruptcy and restructuring, delisting, and refinancing, to which the Direct Channel is not applicable at present. Secondly, a safe, stable and hi-efficient technological system is established. The SSE has established and launched the electronized system of information disclosure and propelled the building of the supporting system of the SSE’s internal business management procedures. Thirdly, it has improved and publicized the standards and procedures for regulation. The SSE has clarified and publicized the business rules of information disclosure, and formulated and released the “SSE Category Index for Announcements on Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure” (the “Category Index for Announcements” for short), the “SSE Guidelines on Format of Listed Companies’ Special Announcements”, the “Business Manual for Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure”, the “FAQs about Information Disclosure”, and the “Operation Guides on Electronized Report for Information Disclosure”. Fourthly, it has strengthened the aftermath regulatory mechanism. The SSE has recently released the “SSE Detailed Rules (Draft) for Regulatory Measures and Disciplinary Sanctions on Listed Companies”, which has improved the regulatory measures by laying out pertinent measures on punishing all the rule-breaking behaviors possible to occur in the SSE’s Direct Channel business. The SSE will absorb reasonable opinions and suggestions, and amend the draft above before promulgating it. In addition, the SSE will start to establish an objective and impartial appraisal system for information disclosure, and explore and implement the classified regulation, in a bid to impel the listed companies to perform their obligations of information disclosure in compliance with relevant rules and regulations. Q: Which issues should be noticed in terms of information disclosure by listed companies after the implementation of the SSE’s Direct Channel？ A: After the implementation of the SSE’s Direct Channel, significant changes will be found in the way of information disclosure, as the listed companies will take the initiative to control the procedures for information disclosure as the obligators of information disclosure. Therefore, directorates of the listed companies are required to fully understand this significant change, attach great importance to the relevant work of the SSE’s Direct Channel, fully acquire the relevant rules, and equip the listed companies with necessary professionals as well as software and hardware infrastructures, so as to get well prepared for the SSE’s Direct Channel. The following issues in performing the obligation of information disclosure require special attention: 1. Time for information disclosure. For all the information confirmed to be released before 15:30 by the listed companies, they will be collectively disclosed on the SSE’s website from 15:30 on the very day while information confirmed to be released after 15:30 by the listed companies will be released on the SSE’s website according to the time of the submissions completed by the listed companies. 2. Procedures for information disclosure. When choosing the category for announcements on information disclosure, the listed companies are required to strictly abide by the “Category Index for Announcements”, and any information not belonging to the scope of the SSE’s Direct Channel can not be disclosed through the Direct Channel. 3. The Error correction mechanism for information disclosure. For any mistakes, omissions, and misleading information in the announcements released through the SSE’s Direct Channel, the listed companies are required to publish timely supplementary announcements or modification announcements. Q: Which aspects should be noticed by investors after the implementation of the SSE’s Direct Channel？ A: After the implementation of the SSE’s Direct Channel, the way for investors to acquire the information disclosed by the listed companies will undergo no change, except that investors can acquire them much earlier than before. The announcements accessible to the Direct Channel are directly disclosed from 15:30 on the very day on the SSE’s website. This will enable investors to acquire relevant information more quickly to facilitate their decision-making. After the implementation of the SSE’s Direct Channel, the listed companies will take more initiative in the release of their announcements. Investors need to make prudent judgments, and reasonable decisions to prevent investment risks. It is necessary to point out in particular that as the SSE’s Direct Channel realizes the direct disclosure for the listed companies’ announcements, it also poses higher requirements to the listed companies in terms of the sense of responsibility in information disclosure, the adequate understanding of relevant rules, as well as the level of their internal control. During the beginning period of the implementation of the SSE’s newly launched Direct Channel, some of the listed companies may have not fully acquired all of relevant business rules and procedures, which may entail the increase of the number of supplementary or modification announcements. Thus, the SSE will adopt measures in the following two aspects: firstly, it will strengthen guidance and training to help the listed companies to fully acquire the business procedures of the Direct Channel as soon as possible to realize a smooth transition; secondly, it will put heavier weight on the monitoring part played by the media, keep a real-time track for the suspected issues concerned by the media, and make timely response to heated or sensational issues on the market. Investors may also keep an eye constantly on the quality of the information disclosed by a listed company and take it as an indicator for reference in judging the company’s creditability and governance level. Q: What regulatory measures will be taken by the SSE in case of possible rule-breaking behaviors in terms of information disclosure? A: To maintain the order in the securities market and protect the legal rights and interests of investors, the SSE will further strengthen the aftermath regulation, insist on the openness of regulation, make timely responses, as well as enhance its regulatory efficiency after implementation of the Direct Channel business. For possible rule-breaking conducts in information disclosure through the Direct Channel, the SSE will treat them in time after it makes a distinction on the conducts between the mistakes made in the work of the listed companies and their rule-breaking behaviors. For occasional and slight mistakes which have not caused significant impact on the market, the SSE will urge the listed companies to make timely and serious correction and rectification, in addition to strengthening training and education to avoid repetition of the mistakes of the same kind. For repeated mistakes, and law-breaking and rule-breaking behaviors, as well as the conducts that have caused impact great to a certain extent, the SSE will take regulatory measures or disciplinary sanctions in light of the details of violations. At the same time, the SSE expects the surveillance on the information disclosure conducts of the listed companies by all means on the part of all the market participants, with an aim to enhance the quality of the listed companies’ information disclosure through concerted efforts. Q: Will there be any follow-up arrangements after the implementation of the SSE’s Direct Channel? A: After the implementation of the SSE’s Direct Channel, the channels for the SSE-listed companies’ information disclosure will be in accordance with those of overseas mature markets on the whole. The SSE will consider promoting the work in the following two aspects after the implementation of the SSE’s Direct Channel, with an aim to give a full play to the functions of the SSE’s Direct Channel and enhance the efficiency of information disclosure and market operation: Firstly, it will further enhance the timeliness of information disclosure, and explore and implement the disclosure of the listed companies’ announcements in the morning, noon, and evening every day, with a final aim to realize real-time disclosure in all trading hours. Secondly, it will further promote the modification to relevant rules, upgrade the system of information disclosure, and gradually broaden the scope of the announcements accessible to the SSE’s Direct Channel to all the announcements in all categories in light of the market development. Moreover, the SSE looks forward to the opinions and suggestions from all the market participants, which will help to consistently improve and better all the relevant tasks concerned in the SSE’s Direct Channel business, thus enhancing the quality and efficiency of the listed companies’ information disclosure.

Notice of Issuing “SSE Business Guidelines on Direct Channel for Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure” and “SSE Category Index for Announcements on Information Disclosure”
19 Feb 2013
　　All listed companies,   　　The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the “SSE Business Guidelines on Direct Channel for Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure” (the “Guidelines” for short) to further improve the quality and efficiency of listed companies’ information disclosure, urge market participants to fulfill their responsibilities, and protect legal rights and interests of investors. The SSE hereby releases the “Guidelines”, which will take effect on July 1, 2013.   　　In response to the implementation of the “Guidelines”, the SSE has amended the “SSE Category Index for Announcements on Information Disclosure” (the “Index” for short) and specified the scope of the announcements accessible to the Direct Channel. If the announcements to be disclosed by listed companies are included into the scope above as stipulated by the “Index”, issues of information disclosure should be handled according to the “Guidelines”.   　　The SSE will organize trainings related to the business of the Direct Channel for Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure in the near future to ensure the smooth implementation of the “Guidelines”, with specific arrangements to be notified later.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　February 19, 2013

Notice of Soliciting Public Opinions on “SSE Detailed Rules (Draft) for Regulatory Measures and Disciplinary Sanctions on Listed Companies”
19 Feb 2013
　　All market participants,   　　The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the “SSE Detailed Rules (Draft) for Regulatory Measures and Disciplinary Sanctions on Listed Companies” (see Attachment I for details) and worked out the relevant remarks on drawing up the detailed rules (see Attachment II for details), in a bid to further urge listed companies and relevant obligors of information disclosure to fulfill the obligation of information disclosure according to laws, standardize the SSE’s self-regulation and supervision, and protect legal rights and interests of investors. The SSE hereby solicits public opinions on the draft above.   　　Please send your opinions or suggestions on the draft to the SSE in written form or by e-mail before March 1, 2013.   　　Fax: 021-68811782 　　E-mail: listing@sse.com.cn 　　Mailing address: SSE Department I of Listed Companies Supervision, 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　February 19, 2013

SSE 10-Year China Treasury Note (Futures Deliverables) Index To Be Launched
06 Feb 2013
　　Designed to serve as a new investable benchmark for bond investors as well as to promote innovation of China bond market, CSI today announced the upcoming launch of SSE 10-Year China Treasury Note (Futures Deliverables) Index on Mar 7th 2013. The base date of the former index is December 31st, 2008. The base index is 100.   　　Shanghai Stock Exchange   　　China Securities Index Co., Ltd.      2013-2-6   　　SSE 10-Year China Treasury Note (Futures Deliverables) Index.   　　(20130205)H01077Cons

Public Bidding Invitation for 24th SSE Joint Research Plan
06 Feb 2013
　　The public bidding invitation for the 24th SSE Joint Research Plan is launched to boost the research and marketization of China's securities market, with the deadline to be March 6, 2013. The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) had run 23 SSE Joint Research Plans.   　　The plans aim to make full use of relevant domestic and foreign research resources, make intensive research on hot and frontier issues of China's securities market in a standardized, precise and pragmatic manner, improve market research, and promote exchange of excellent research results. All this is to provide independent, rational, high-level, and forward-looking policy suggestions and implementation schemes for the development of China's securities market.   　　Major research subjects of the 24th SSE Joint Research Plan include: 　　1. Governance structures of global major exchanges; 　　2. Assessment methods and systems of wealth management products; 　　3. Listing, financing, transfer, and registration systems of regional over-the-counter markets, and measures of exchanges on supporting development of regional equity markets; 　　4. Market development of institutional investors, and innovation and interaction of securities companies; 　　5. Simulated financial systems; 　　6. Bond-based financing means of listed companies, and protection of shareholders' rights and interests; 　　7. Comparison on cross-border cross-listing systems; 　　8. Reform and perfection of listed companies' refinancing systems.        Source:Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE InfoNet's Pilot Service for Listed Company's Performance Briefing
06 Feb 2013
　　On February 5, 2013, SSE InfoNet Ltd. (SSE InfoNet) provided the pilot service for the performance briefing of Chengdu B-Ray Media Co., Ltd. (B-Ray Media) through its online platform and hardware facilities, in a bid to improve the market service of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), give another communication channel for listed companies and investors, and enhance the transparency of listed companies.   　　It is learnt that on February 1, B-Ray Media made an announcement on convening a performance briefing and solicited questions from investors after it disclosed the annual report of 2012 on January 29, 2013. On February 5, B-Ray Media held a performance briefing for investors through the online platform provided by SSE InfoNet, and among those attending the briefing were the company's General Manager, CFO, and Secretary to Directorate, as well as some institutional investors and industry analysts. Apart from reporting the company's performance and others to investors, the person-in-charge of B-Ray Media answered the questions concerned by small and medium-sized investors online. The text broadcast of the briefing was released online at the following address: http://roadshow.sseinfo.com/600880.   　　The above performance briefing could be taken as the first try of SSE InfoNet for holding relevant activities in the future. An official of SSE InfoNet said that the service provided for performance briefings of listed companies, a significant innovative project and also a major try for the SSE to improve the market service, aimed to give a new communication way for listed companies and investors, and help the latter know more about listed companies as well as understand the values and risks of investment in listed companies.   　　SSE InfoNet will continuously encourage listed companies to hold briefings of performance, significant issues, cash dividend distribution, and others for investors by making full use of its online platform and hardware facilities.   　　The official of SSE InfoNet also stressed that SSE InfoNet provided the above service for listed companies and investors. The remarks made by listed companies at performance briefings only reflect their positions. Investors should make rational decisions upon prudent judgment, so as to prevent investment risks.                                                           Shanghai Stock Exchange

Business Rules Rationalized to Boost Public Regulation
01 Feb 2013
　　Recently, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has completely sorted out and appraised the business rules of 2012, and released an announcement on abolishment of the 6th batch of business rules (involving 33 kinds of business rules) to the market. After the clean-up work, the SSE has had 189 kinds of valid business rules, which are divided into 7 categories of "Organization", "Issuance", "Listing", "Trading", "Membership", "Service", and "Fee", or 4 levels of "Basic Business Rule", "Detailed Rule (Measure) For Implementation", "Business Guideline", and "Business Notice". All the business rules are publicized on the "Business Rules" column of the SSE's website.   　　One of the SSE's major measures on propelling the system of business rules is to build a long-term rationalization and appraisal mechanism of business rules, and conduct regular rationalization and appraisal. The SSE, for the purpose of facilitating the understanding and application of market participants, has fully rationalized the currently valid business rules with binding force and continuous validity year by year, and appraised and checked the formulation and implementation of business rules, in a bid to improve the effect of business rules' implementation. So far, six rounds of regular rationalization of businesses rules have been finished, with 217 kinds of business rules already abolished.   　　In the rationalization work of 2012, the SSE also initially made an all-round clean-up of other regulatory documents which were not included into the scope of business rules. As a result, a total of 95 kinds of documents, including business guides and procedure-related regulatory documents, were put in order. These documents, which were divided into 6 categories of "Corporate Supervision", "Trading Management", "Member Management", "Bonds Business", "Funds and Derivatives Business", and "Market Regulation", have been released on the "Business Guides and Procedures" column of the SSE's website.   　　The full and timely rationalization of business rules and other regulatory documents was carried out as the capital market stressed to develop itself in a public, standardized, and legal approach. The SSE has blazed new trails to build a system of rules matching with the market growth on the whole by formulating and amending business rules in time, and taking "Standardizing the Market Operation", "Driving the Market Growth", "Fueling the Market-oriented Innovation", and "Protecting Investors' Interests" as fundamentals, with the soaring growth of the capital market and the incessant perfection of fundamental legal systems over the past years. On the other hand, the SSE, according to the requirement of regulating in a transparent and legal approach, has further disclosed the processes of making business rules, apart from soliciting the market opinions by means of collecting suggestions, holding symposiums, and conducting questionnaire surveys while formulating and amending the influential business rules for the market development, innovation, and regulation. Furthermore, the SSE has attached importance to popularizing the regulation standards and experience, and refined relevant merits in the regulation in time for release.   　　Source:Shanghai Stock Exchange  

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2013 Spring Festival
29 Jan 2013
　　All member units, 　　The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the Spring Festival of 2013 according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2013" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2012] No. 205) as follows: 　　1. The SSE will close from February 9 (Saturday) to February 15 (Friday) and open for trading from February 18 (Monday) onwards. It will also close on the weekend on February 16 (Saturday) and February 17 (Sunday). 　　2. Relevant clearing issues will be carried out according to the arrangements of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. 　　3. To ensure the normal trading after the holiday, the SSE will conduct a market connectivity test for its trading systems (including the bidding-based matching platform, the comprehensive business platform, and the comprehensive electronic platform for fixed income securities) from 09:15 to 12:15 on February 17, 2013 (Sunday). 　　Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. 　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　January 29, 2013

SSE Credit Bond 100 Index To Be Launched
28 Jan 2013
　　Designed to serve as two new investable benchmarks for bond investors as well as to promote innovation of China bond market, CSI today announced the upcoming launch of SSE Credit Bond 100 Index on Feb. 26th 2013. This index is composed of credit bonds trading in SSE whose credit rating are AA grade or above ，term to maturity above 1 year and outstanding above 0.8 billion. The base date is December 31st, 2007. The base index is100. 　　Shanghai Stock Exchange 　　China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 　　2013-1-28 SSE Credit Bond 100 Index methodology   Constituent    

Notice of Adjustment to Scope of Underlying Securities of Margin Trading, Securities Lending
25 Jan 2013
All member units and other market participants, To fit for the growth of margin trading and securities lending, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) decides to adjust the scope of the shares used as underlying securities of margin trading and securities lending (the underlying shares for short) as required by the "SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Margin Trading and Securities Lending" (the “Detailed Rules” for short). It hereby notifies as follows: 1. The adjustment to the underlying shares’ scope: as required by Article 24 of the “Detailed Rules”, 300 kinds of shares are picked out according to the descending order of weighted appraisal indicators as well as the consideration of individual stocks and the market situation (see Attachment I for details). The calculation method of weighted appraisal indicator: weighted appraisal indicator = 2 * (average float market capitalization of this kind of shares within certain period / average float market capitalization of SSE-listed A shares within certain period) + (average turnover of this kind of shares within certain period / average turnover of SSE-listed A shares within certain period). 2. For the ETFs used as underlying securities of margin trading and securities lending (see Attachment II for details), the scope of qualified securities representing margin and their conversion rates (see Attachment III for details) remain unchanged, while the risk control measures and information disclosure requirements for the ETFs are implemented according to those for shares. 3. All member units are required to prepare for relevant business and technical system for the adjustment to the underlying shares’ scope. 4. The Notice shall come into effect from January 31, 2013. The “Notice of Adjustment to Underlying Securities Scope of Margin Trading and Securities Lending” (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2011] No. 47 Document) issued by the SSE on November 25, 2011 shall be abolished. Shanghai Stock Exchange January 25, 2013

Supporting Listed Companies' Self-strengthening to Benefit Investors
25 Jan 2013
The SSE delivers and learns the spirit of the National Securities and Futures Supervision Meeting and the Discipline Inspection and Supervision Meeting. On January 24, 2013, a meeting attended by middle-level and above officials was held by the Party Committee and the President's Office of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) to deliver the spirit of the 2013 National Securities and Futures Supervision Meeting and the Discipline Inspection and Supervision Meeting of the National Securities and Futures Regulatory System, and to learn and implement General Secretary of the Central Party Committee Xi Jinping's important instruction on enforcing frugality and combating extravagance. It was emphasized at the meeting that in accordance with the requirement of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and the exchange's party committee, the SSE should carefully learn and implement the spirit of the two meetings and General Secretary Xi's important instruction, and make ensure that the exchange's staff are well informed of the spirits, and that the awareness and sense of responsibility of learning and publicizing the meetings' spirits are enhanced. It is stressed that everyone at the exchange should make learning schedule in light of the guidelines and arrangement put forward in relevant documents and their specific duties, so as to make sure the meetings' spirit is embodied in their work. Meanwhile, the exchange's internal rules and regulations should be overhauled for improvement, and regulations on implementation of the "8 New Provisions on Work Style Improvement" (released by the CPC Central Committee Political Bureau) and those on frugality shall be drawn up. It was unanimously acknowledged at the discussion that as the foundation for developing capital market in China will be further strengthened in the years to come, China's capital market is offered with rare strategic opportunities. CSRC Chairman Guo Shuqing put forward six principles on furthering the reform and development of the capital market, which will serve to accelerate the building of a capital market that is stronger and better established and capable of providing immediate financial services to the country's development in a larger scope and at a higher level. In specific, the six principles are: sticking to the basic realities that the market is in emergence and transition; sticking to striking full balance between investment capabilities and financing capabilities; sticking to loosening control while tightening supervision; sticking to the organic integration of strict law enforcement and the improvement of laws; sticking to the mutual benefit of opening up both domestically and internationally; and sticking to coordinating short-term interest and long-term objectives. It was agreed that the six principles clarify where China's capital market is, what it is like and how it can be developed, response to the public's concern as to the market's positioning and functions, point out the critical questions on furthering reform of the capital market, define the direction of market supervision and basic system development, explain the relationship between deepening opening-up and improving market system, and provide the methodology for reinforcing the reform and opening up of the market and stabilizing development. Therefore, the principles are significant guidelines for the reform and development of the capital market in the years to come. As Guo has provided clear analysis of the current environment and situation for the development of the capital market, and its mission and tasks, and made an overall planning of the key tasks in 2013 in ten respects, the SSE should put forward measures in terms of building a first-class exchange that boasts a full array of products, advanced technologies, safety, efficiency and transparency, so as to support the listed companies in their efforts to strengthen themselves so as to bring better returns to the investors and thus effectively serve the real economy. After discussion, preliminary opinions on implementing the ten overall guidelines were agreed on. The first opinion focuses on deepening and expanding the multiple-level blue chip market by "regulating through service". The SSE will attract the listing of leading companies from segment markets, and high quality companies from technological innovation and cultural and creative and other emerging industries, advanced manufacturing industry and modern services industry, so as to optimize the exchange's structure of listed companies. Besides, by drawing on the experience of being involved in developing shareholding  markets in Shanghai and Zhejiang, the SSE will set up a mechanism that effectively support the building of over-the-counter market and promote the development of multiple level blue chip market. Secondly, the reforms of new share issuance and delisting should be propelled by reinforcing the market constraint system. The SSE should develop new products including preferred shares, implement the new delisting system, perfect supporting regulations and follow-up trading system arrangements according to the progress in the implementation of the new delisting system, and report in time the delisting risks of key companies to the local securities regulatory bureaus and governments concerned, apart from studying new tools and means, working out innovative methods of large-cap stock issuance, establishing the board switch mechanism for different markets, and providing multi-tiered financing channels. Thirdly, the reinforced rationalization of listed companies should be supported by cementing the quality and profitability of listed companies. The supervision transparency should be improved by publicly releasing standards, processes, and measures. Effective regulatory measures should be taken in time for the accounting problems disclosed in media and revealed in regular supervision through strengthening the supervision and inspection on authenticity of listed companies' financial information. Efforts should be made to boost the corporate governance of listed companies and guide them to consummate their internal control and fulfill their social responsibilities. Besides, the SSE should study and innovate supporting measures such as buyout bonds, buyout funds, and bridge loans, simplify procedures for merge, acquisition and reorganization, and refinancing, support reorganization and merger as well as reinforced rationalization of listed companies, and guide the listed companies to put more importance to quality and efficient growth. Fourthly, institutional investors should be vigorously developed by taking the stable market valuation as the goal. The SSE will build the registered-institutional-investor-oriented service system, and develop all kinds of institutional investors including banks, securities dealers, insurance companies, funds, trusts and special investment companies, with the support of the institutional-investor-oriented service platform construction and the institutional investor development plan. Besides, efforts should be made to launch diversified financial businesses step by step, including securities companies' assets management products, funds, and assets securitization products, and build an effective system giving full play to the core role of institutional investors in market valuation. Fifthly, pains should be taken to support the cross-border ETF product development, and provide convenience for the global assets allocation of investors. The SSE will boost and elevate the level of its globalization by developing various convenient and low-cost service channels for international investors, speed up the cross-border ETF product development, expand the scope of cooperation with overseas index institutions, seize the opportunity of the dramatic growth of QFIIs and QDIIs, as well as launch new products and services. Sixthly, the investor-oriented services and communication should be improved by attaching importance to interaction. In addition to continuously optimizing the construction of the online college, the SSE will improve the investor-oriented services through "SSE Interaction Platform", "Monthly Q&A", and "Face-to-face Talks". Moreover, the listed companies will be encouraged to sponsor business performance promotion meetings and major issue press conferences, in a bid to improve the communication between listed companies and investors. At the meeting, the speeches by CSRC Chairman Guo Shuqing, CSRC Vice Chairman Yao Gang, and Party Chief Li Xiaohong of the CSRC Discipline Supervisory Committee at the Discipline Inspection and Supervision Meeting of the National Securities and Futures Regulatory System was delivered; especially, the recent key requirements of General Secretary Xi Jinping on enforcing frugality and combating extravagance and relevant documents were emphasized as well, in addition to making arrangements for learning and implementing the requirement put forward by General Secretary Xi. It was stressed that the SSE should immerse the concept of diligence and frugality into all its tasks by implementing the requirements put forward by General Secretary Xi, the eight regulations of the CPC Central Committee, the requirements at the 2nd plenary session of the Discipline Supervisory Committee of the CPC Central Commission, and the spirit at the National Securities and Futures Supervision Meeting. In the process of revising and perfecting the SSE's work plan, efforts should be made to specify the measures and goals of diligence and frugality, and reinforce supervision and inspections, with an aim of building a thrifty atmosphere in the exchange. Source: Shanghai Securities News

Notice of Soliciting Public Opinions on "SSE Business Guidelines (Draft) for Shares Repurchase by Listed Companies through Auction Trading (Revised in 2013)"
18 Jan 2013
  All market participants, To guide and rationalize shares repurchase by listed companies through auction trading, safeguard the securities market order, and protect legal rights and interests of investors and listed companies, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has revised the "SSE Business Guidelines for Shares Repurchase by Listed Companies through Auction Trading" (Shang Zheng Shang Zi [2008] No. 106 Document). The SSE hereby solicits public opinions on the revised version (see the Attachment for details). Please send your opinions or suggestions on the revised business guidelines to the SSE in written form or by e-mail before February 1, 2013. Fax: 021-68811782 E-mail: listing@sse.com.cn Mailing address: SSE Department I of Listed Companies Supervision, Shanghai Stock Exchange Building, 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120 Source:Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Dynamic Index and Stability Index Series To Be Launched
17 Jan 2013
　　Designed to serve as new benchmarks and investable underlyings for investors, today SSE and CSI announced the upcoming launch of SSE 180 Dynamic index and Stability index, SSE 380 Dynamic index and Stability index on Feb 8th 2013. Regarding the methodologies and more details about the above indices, please refer to the official website of SSE（www.sse.com.cn）and CSI (www.csindex.com.cn). Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. Jan 17th 2013 SSE Dynamic Index and Stability Index Series Methodology 000142Constituents List 000125Constituents List 000141Constituents List 000123Constituents List  

Risk Alert Board Launched, Regulatory Requirements Further Specified
09 Jan 2013
  As of yesterday, the Risk Alert Board of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has been running smoothly for three trading days. It is learned that, as of now, the violations of rules have occurred in some accounts which accumulatively purchased more than 0.5 million shares of a single kind of "Shares with Risk Alert" in a single day. To this end, the SSE will take regulatory measures or impose disciplinary sanctions, as well as further specify regulatory requirements. Stable Operation in General According to the relevant SSE official, on the first day of the operation there were a total of 46 kinds of "shares with risk alert" (including A shares and B shares) issued by 43 companies included on the Risk Alert Board. Excluding the shares with listing suspension (4 kinds) and those with trading suspension (3 kinds), there were 39 kinds of "Shares with Risk Alert" traded on the day; in the following two trading days there were respectively 39 and 38 kinds of "Shares with Risk Alert" traded on the Risk Alert Board. According to the sources, the Risk Alert Board has been running smoothly in general after its launch. In the 3 trading days the average daily price changes of "Shares with Risk Alert" respectively stood at -3.09%, 1.76%, and 2.15%; the daily turnovers respectively came to RMB1.181 billion, RMB949 million, and RMB1.161 billion; the turnovers of individual investors respectively accounted for 98.48%, 97.15%, and 98.71% of the total daily turnovers. Over-purchase by Some Accounts The data show that, as of now, the Risk Alert Board has not seen the shares with temporary trading suspension because of reaching the limit (30%) of the turnover rate, with the highest turnover rates in the 3 whole trading days found for the shares issued by *ST Tiancheng (9.64%), ST Boyuan (4.85%), and ST Boyuan (5.98%). However, in the three trading days, some accounts violated the provision of Article 10 of the "SSE Provisional Regulations on Share Trading on Risk Alert Board" by accumulatively purchasing over 0.5 million shares of a single kind of the "Shares with Risk Alert" in a single day. According to the relevant SSE official, the SSE, in light of details of the violations, will take regulatory measures or impose disciplinary sanctions on the investors committing the violations according to the regulations of the Risk Alert Board; meanwhile, the SSE will specify regulatory requirements, and urge the SSE members to improve monitoring measures, in a bid to ensure investors' trading in compliance. SSE's Reminding for Investors The SSE official also stressed that while trading shares on the Risk Alert Board, investors are supposed to learn about the relevant rules in detail, get a full understanding of the investment risks concerned, make prudent investment in view of their risk tolerance capacities, and ensure trading behaviors in compliance with relevant laws and regulations. The SSE members should fully implement the requirements in the rules of the Risk Alert Board, do an effective job in publicity and risk alert, and take proper measures on the monitoring of clients' trading "Shares with Risk Alert". Moreover, the SSE members should release alerts and dissuasions to the clients suspected of violations in accordance with the relevant provisions, and report the cases to the SSE in a timely manner. Source:Shanghai Securities News

Notice on Issues of Cementing Management of Shares Trading on Risk Alert Board
09 Jan 2013
  Shang Zheng Hui Zi [2013] No. 2 Document All member units and market participants, The "SSE Provisional Regulations on Share Trading on Risk Alert Board" (the "Provisional Regulations" for short) has been put into force. Since the official operation of the Risk Alert Board on January 4, 2013, most of the members at the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) have reminded their clients about risks in accordance with relevant requirements, but there still existed the case that single accounts of some of the SSE members' clients accumulatively purchased over 0.5 million shares for a single kind of "Shares with Risk Alert" in a single day, thus resulting in the necessity for reinforce the management of relevant shares trading. To this end, the SSE issues the notice on the following issues: First, all the SSE member units must implement the signing of the "Letter for Risk Disclosure of Shares with Risk Alert" to reveal trading risks to their clients in accordance with the "Provisional Regulations" and the "Notice on Making Full Preparations for Disclosing Stock Trading Risks of Risk Alert Board" (Shang Zheng Hui Zi [2012] No. 254 Document) issued by the SSE. The orders for purchasing shares with risk alert placed by the clients who have not signed the "Letter for Risk Disclosure of Shares with Risk Alert" shall not be accepted. All the member units shall, before the 15th of each month, summarize and upload the circumstances of their clients signing the "Letter for Risk Disclosure of Shares with Risk Alert" through the module of "Letters" in the special section for members. The SSE will check the circumstances of signing the "Letter for Risk Disclosure of Shares with Risk Alert" according to requirements. Second, the total number of shares with risk alert purchased by a single account in a single day should be calculated by combining the purchases of the securities account and the credit securities account of margin trading and securities lending of the investor; the sum of the orders, the purchases in the day, and the orders which have been placed without being traded or revoked shall not be more than 0.5 million shares; the orders for purchasing more than 0.5 million shares shall not be accepted by the member units concerned. Third, all the member units shall take effective measures on monitoring the number of the total shares of a single kind with risk alert purchased by a single account in a single day; the clients found in violation of the provisions shall be warned and dissuaded as well as reported to the SSE timely. Fourth, the SSE will impose disciplinary sanctions of restricting the trading of accounts on the investors who violate the provisions by purchasing more shares with risk alert than the limited quantity and are warned in vain. The SSE will take regulatory measures or impose disciplinary sanctions on the members who neglect client management or fail to effectively warn and dissuade their clients over-purchasing shares with risk alert. Source:Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Releasing "Guidelines for Cash Dividend Distribution of SSE-listed Companies"
07 Jan 2013
  All listed companies, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the "Guidelines for Cash Dividend Distribution of SSE-listed Companies" to implement the requirements of the China Securities Regulatory Commission in the "Notice of Further Implementing Cash Dividend Distribution of Listed Companies" (Zheng Jian Fa [2012] No. 37 Document) for guiding and rationalizing the cash dividend distribution of listed companies and promoting the sound development of the securities market. The SSE hereby releases the guidelines, which shall come into force from the date of release. Attachment: Guidelines for Cash Dividend Distribution of SSE-listed Companies Source:Shanghai Stock Exchange

Q&A on "Guidelines for Cash Dividend Distribution of SSE-listed Companies"
07 Jan 2013
  On January 7, 2013, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) releases the "Guidelines for Cash Dividend Distribution of SSE-listed Companies" (the "Guidelines"). In this regard, an SSE official takes the interview about the "Guidelines". Q: What are the background and the purpose for the SSE to release the "Guidelines"? A: Recent years have seen increasing cash returns given by SSE-listed companies to investors. According to statistics, the overall amount of cash dividends reached about 30% of net profits on the SSE market over the past three years. In 2011, 558 companies among all the SSE-listed companies carried out cash dividend distribution, with the total amount of cash dividends up to RMB472 billion. Besides, the overall dividend rate rises year by year and that reached 2.49% at the end of 2012. A good number of blue-chip companies which give investors high dividend returns in successive years spring up. However, SSE-listed companies still fall behind the companies listed on mature markets in the proportion of cash dividend distribution. Besides, the companies with high dividends are mainly the few high-quality blue chips, typically the banks. Moreover, some listed companies need to improve their dividend distribution mechanisms, which have no continuous and stable dividend distribution and give investors no clear expectations for dividend distribution. By the end of 2011, only 347 SSE-listed companies had distributed cash dividends for three years in a row, accounting for 40% of the companies having been listed for at least three years. For this purpose, the SSE, as the frontline supervisory and self-regulatory organization for listed companies, regards it necessary to release the "Guidelines" for propelling SSE-listed companies to improve dividend distribution, and ensure continuous and expectable dividend distribution. The SSE's issuance of the "Guidelines" for promoting cash dividend distribution of listed companies is attributed to the following points. Firstly, cash dividend distribution of listed companies is the basis of good returns offered for investors. The returns given by listed companies for investors include cash returns and enhancement of corporate value. On one hand, as investors offer their funds to listed companies, it is perfectly justified for listed companies to give investors cash returns. On the other hand, the enhancement of corporate value is reflected by the rise of stock prices on the securities market, through which investors can obtain capital gains. The relatively stable and expectable cash return given by listed companies to investors is not only a basic attribute of securities as a kind of financial assets, but also a key factor for reasonable pricing and valuation of stocks in classical theories. The experience in the international mature markets has shown that the establishment of a stable and effective mechanism for the cash dividend distribution of listed companies is the only way to attract institutional investors with long-term funds who aim to obtain stable dividend incomes and reasonable capital gains, and to rationalize and stabilize market valuation. Secondly, cash dividend distribution of listed companies is an inherent requirement of corporate governance. Cash dividend distribution is not only an objective of corporate governance but also a platform for institutional investors with long-term funds to take part in corporate governance and play their roles. In over one year since Chairman Guo Shuqing took office, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) has launched a series of reforms on the securities market, involving new share issuance, regulatory measures against speculation on new shares, crack down on insider trading, reduction in transaction fees, cash dividend distribution and delisting of listed companies, and other aspects. These reforms have been showing their positive effects. The current release of the "Guidelines" is to implement and expand the CSRC's concept of reform on cash dividend distribution of listed companies, which is of great significance to promote the sound, stable, and long-term development of the securities market. Q: What are the main principles for the SSE to formulate the "Guidelines"? A: The SSE issues the "Guidelines" on the basis of its role in self-regulation and supervision on listed companies. The main principles are specified as follows. Firstly, the "Guidelines" focuses on giving guidance, in which most of the provisions are non-obligatory for system design. The "Guidelines" is designed to advocate the best code of conduct for cash dividend distribution but not force listed companies to distribute dividends. It aims to guide, encourage, and support listed companies to make cash dividend distribution policies beneficial to shareholders' interests by introducing market-oriented constraint mechanisms and incentives. Listed companies have their own choices to make and implement specific dividend distribution policies according to their actual situations. Secondly, the "Guidelines" highlights listed companies' obligation of information disclosure. The cash dividend distribution policy is an important basis for investors to make investment decisions. To advance listed companies' information disclosure of cash dividend distribution policies, the "Guidelines" requires listed companies to disclose in details relevant cash dividend distribution policies in periodic reports. Besides, the "Guidelines" specifies the requirements for information disclosure in case that the proportion of dividends is substandard, the dividend distribution policies are inconsistent, or the companies fail to give investors clear expectations. Thirdly, the "Guidelines" specifies and rationalizes the procedures for listed companies to make decisions on dividend distribution. Those procedures are an important part for investors to express and safeguard their legal interests. The "Guidelines" highlights the rationalization of listed companies' decision-making about cash dividend distribution, which provides a feasible way for small and medium-sized investors, especially institutional investors, to participate in the companies' decision-making about profit distribution by ushering in the external constraint mechanism imposed by small and medium-sized investors on listed companies' cash dividend distribution policies.   Q: What provisions are specified in the "Guidelines" to guide and promote listed companies' improvement in cash dividend distribution mechanisms?   A: The basic concept of guiding and propelling listed companies to establish continuous, stable, scientific and transparent cash dividend distribution mechanisms runs through the "Guidelines". Apart from the above-mentioned information disclosure and decision-making procedures, specific provisions are made in the "Guidelines" from the following four aspects. Firstly, the "Guidelines" sets up the standards for evaluating the level of cash dividend distribution. By taking into account listed companies' actual conditions in cash dividend distribution in the past three years, the "Guidelines" takes 30% and 50% as the standards for average and high levels of dividend distribution, respectively. On that basis, the "Guidelines" makes respective stipulations on corresponding constraint and incentive measures regarding possible different cases in the process of implementation. Secondly, the "Guidelines" advocates the establishment of reasonable and diversified return mechanisms. In reference to common dividend distribution policies adopted by the foreign mature markets, the "Guidelines" offers four alternative dividend distribution policies, namely fixed-amount policy, fixed ratio policy, excess dividend policy, and residual dividend policy. Besides, the "Guidelines" encourages listed companies to make clear the way of profit distribution that cash dividend is distributed prior to stock dividend in the articles of association. Furthermore, the "Guidelines" encourages listed companies to reward shareholders by means of share repurchase with cash besides cash dividend. Thirdly, the "Guidelines" specifies incentive measures. To encourage listed companies to improve cash dividend distribution, the "Guidelines" formulated a series of incentive measures. For example, listed companies' distribution of continuous cash dividends or public shareholders' satisfaction concerning cash dividend distribution policies are taken as major indicators for selecting the constituents of relevant indices. Special indices are compiled to reflect the group of listed companies featuring stable and continuous cash dividend distribution. The listed companies with improved cash dividend distribution are given "green channels" and relevant support within the SSE's scope of official duty when they involve re-financing, merger, acquisition and reorganization and other cases for market access, or given bonus points in appraisal of corporate governance, the annual assessment on secretary to board of directors, and other issues as appropriate. Fourthly, the "Guidelines" strengthens after-action evaluation and supervision. To further toughen the external supervision on listed companies' dividend distribution policies, the "Guidelines" encourages the third-party with professional capability as well as objective and fair principles to evaluate and disclose the companies' annual dividend distribution capabilities and levels. The SSE will publish annual research and evaluation reports on cash dividend distribution to create a favorable atmosphere for a correct understanding of listed companies' dividend distribution capabilities and levels. Q: What modifications and improvements have been made in the "Guidelines" based on the draft version? A: Based on the opinions previously solicited from the public, the opinions and suggestions from listed companies and other market participants have been reasonably adopted for the modification and improvement of the "Guidelines". By soliciting public opinions, the SSE has received over 60 pieces of feedback documents and the questionnaires completed by 954 SSE-listed companies. According to the overall feedbacks, market participants have given positive comments on the draft of the "Guidelines", but also proposed their opinions and suggestions on some specific clauses. In this regard, the SSE has revised and improved the draft of the "Guidelines" by earnestly analyzing and adopting relevant feedbacks. Firstly, the exchange specifies the excess dividend policy in the alternative scheme for cash dividend distribution. Secondly, the exchange makes clear the standards for profit distribution of listed companies and those for the proportion of dividends involved in the "Guidelines" by increasing special clauses. Thirdly, the exchange exempts the listed companies which adopt the residue dividend policy and boast the proportion of cash dividend of over 30% from relevant obligations of information disclosure. Fourthly, the exchange makes clear that only the voting results of the meetings for holders of A shares are disclosed in separate divisions and according to different market values in particular cases. Fifthly, the exchange further specifies the incentive measures for share repurchase with cash. Sixthly, the exchange encourages small and medium-sized investors, especially institutional investors, to take part in corporate governance for further reinforcing external constraints on listed companies' cash dividend distribution. Q: What stipulations have been made in the "Guidelines" concerning the phenomenon that major shareholders of a few listed companies achieve their purposes of cashing out and harm the interests of minority shareholders through large proportion of cash dividends? A: In reality, there is a phenomenon that major shareholders of certain listed companies which have been newly listed or have just finished re-financing take advantage of dividend distribution to cash out. In view of this problem, the "Guidelines" mainly focuses on the following two measures. On one hand, the "Guidelines" specifies that such kind of companies should make the plans of returns to shareholders in the documents for the issuance of the determined cash dividend distribution schemes, and the cash dividend distribution policies and the cash dividend distribution commitments should be consistent, thus keeping the continuity and stability of cash dividend distribution. On the other hand, if major shareholders of the listed companies are suspected of cashing out in the large proportion of cash dividends, the SSE will require the sponsors and the principal accounting firms in charge of continuous supervision to pay special attention to the cases and deliver their professional opinions, and meanwhile request relevant agencies of the CSRC to conduct further examination. Q: How does the SSE deal with the case that some listed companies conduct re-financing while distributing dividends in reality? What measures have been specified in the "Guidelines" to solve the problems in that case? A: Listed companies are able to obtain funds through internal financing and external financing. Internal financing means that listed companies take the remaining undistributed profits after distributing cash dividends as the sources of financing. Listed companies should properly determine the proportions of cash dividends and internal financing in realized distributable profits, establish development mechanisms for dividend-supported reinvestment, and fully disclose relevant information. The "Guidelines" requires listed companies adopting the residue dividend policy to disclose details about future investment projects, including capital sources, expected return rates, accountability mechanisms for failure in achieving expected return rates, and other issues. As for the fast-growing companies who have reasons for no dividend distribution, the companies' major shareholders, boards of directors, and management teams should have sufficient reasons and disclose them, and set up relevant mechanisms of examination, assessment, and accountability for re-investment. A company will turn to external refinancing when internal financing can not catch up with its development. The company's major shareholders and executives should assume responsibilities for the investment orientation and income of the funds raised through the refinancing, make full disclosure of the detailed projects supported by the funds raised through the refinancing, and build a development mechanism for refinancing-supported investment. So, there is no contradiction between cash dividend distribution and refinancing. A company should fulfill the obligation of cash dividend distribution for its shareholders. For both internal financing and external one, a company should establish corresponding examination, assessment, and accountability systems, disclose relevant information, and receive the external constraints imposed by investors including institutional investors. For instance, with regard to all processes in a listed company's decision-making on profit distribution, the "Guidelines" specifies the effective ways for investors, including institutional investors, to participate in listed companies' decision-making on dividend distribution, so as to cement the external constraint system for the cash dividend distribution of listed companies. Q: Excluding dividends and paying taxes after a listed company distributing cash dividends may result in more loss than gains for investors. What is your opinion? A: The ex-right and ex-dividend is a market-oriented mechanism prevalent in the domestic and overseas markets. It is a normal market reaction to feel some impact on a listed company's share price in the short term when the company's distribution of cash dividends and the investors' gains of cash bonuses result in the corresponding reduction in the company's net assets and net assets per share. On the other hand, the company's net assets and net assets per share make no decisive impact on the company's share price as the stock price ultimately depends on the quality, in particular the continued profitability of the company, and investors usually determine the market values of stocks in accordance with the industry price-earnings ratio and earnings per share. In reality, on the ex-dividend date the actual stock prices in market transactions are decided by various factors such as the intrinsic value of stocks as well as the supply and demand situation, and a company's stock prices after ex-dividend may fall or rise. Therefore, ex-dividend prices do not necessarily make actual prices at which investors trade the stocks on the day. In terms of taxation, regulatory authorities have optimized and adjusted the policy on the personal income tax for dividends and bonuses. In accordance with the "Notice on the Issues Related to the Implementation of the Policy of Differentiated Personal Income Taxes for Dividends and Bonuses of Listed Companies" jointly issued by the Ministry of Finance, the State Administration of Taxation, and the CSRC on November 16, 2012, the taxable income of investors holding stocks for more than one year will be reduced to 25% of the gains of dividends and bonuses with the actual tax burden standing at only 5%, down by half from the previous one. The policy adjustment will be conducive to increasing investors' returns, optimizing the structure of investors, guiding the long-term investment, protecting the interests of investors, and promoting the sound and stable development of the capital market. Q: How do the listed companies, which, according to the "Guidelines", are supposed to disclose voting results at shareholders' meetings in separate divisions and according to different market values, have access to the data about the distribution of investors? A: The listed companies with the cases stipulated in Article 8 and Article 10 of the "Guidelines" shall provide convenience in online voting for investors when submitting their profit distribution proposals to shareholders' meetings for discussion, and disclose voting results at the shareholders' meetings in separate divisions and according to different market values. And the support for the data of the distribution of investors needed for that purpose shall be provided by SSE InfoNet Ltd. Q: According to the regulations of the CSRC on cash dividend distribution, listed companies universally revised the articles of association in 2012. Are the listed companies required to revise the articles of association again in accordance with the "Guidelines"? A: Some investors believe that only by including the specific requirements of the "Guidelines" for cash dividend distribution in the articles of association of listed companies can the requirements be implemented in the practice of distributing dividends by listed companies in the future. However, the listed companies extensively revising the articles of association again will result in the increase of their operating costs. In fact, as the "Guidelines" is a prescriptive document, its specific requirements have the binding effectiveness in themselves. As for whether to revise the articles of association accordingly, the "Guidelines" does not make mandatory requirements. Listed companies may choose on their own to implement the requirements of the "Guidelines" without revising the articles of association or include the requirements of the "Guidelines" in the articles of association at appropriate time. Q: As the disclosure of 2012 annual reports will start after the official promulgation and implementation of the "Guidelines", what issues related to the "Guidelines" should listed companies pay attention to? A: After the official promulgation and implementation of the "Guidelines", listed company will comprehensively launch the information disclosure of the 2012 annual reports. The listed companies on the SSE should study and understand the relevant contents of the "Guidelines" in detail, make preparations for the implementation of relevant requirements in the "Guidelines" before and after the disclosure of the annual reports, and focus on the following four issues: First, before determining the 2012 plan for profit distribution, a listed company should make full assessment of its own situation, and listen to the comments of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors, on the plan of cash dividend distribution by conducting public solicitation of opinions or holding discussion meetings, etc. The sensitive information for share price in the process of soliciting opinions should be disclosed in a timely manner. Second, the listed companies that can not determine the 2012 profit distribution plans in accordance with the cash dividend distribution policies (or the minimum cash profit-sharing ratios) fixed in the articles of association or disclosed previously should pay attention to implementing the requirements for the information disclosure and the decision-making procedures as stipulated in Article 8 of the "Guidelines". Third, the companies adopting the policy of surplus dividends should pay attention to whether the dividend distribution ratio calculated according to the indicators required by the "Guidelines" is less than 30%. For the cases of the ratio of less than 30%, the relevant issues should be disclosed in accordance with the requirements of Article 9 of the "Guidelines". Fourth, the listed companies with the cases as described in Article 8 and Article 10 of the "Guidelines" should organize briefings in a proper manner within the stipulated time, provide convenience in the online voting for investors, and disclose voting results in separate divisions and according to different market values. The listed companies with the cases as described in Article 10 should also disclose the issues stipulated in Article 10 in the directorate announcement on discussing and approving annual reports. In addition, listed companies should pay attention to and abide by other issues stipulated in the "Guidelines". The SSE will carry out special inspections on the implementation of the "Guidelines" after the disclosure of the 2012 annual reports of SSE-listed companies. Source:Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice on Listed Companies' Annual Reports of 2012
31 Dec 2012
  All listed companies, To complete the disclosure of listed companies' annual reports of 2012, in accordance with the provisions in the "Rules No. 2 on Contents and Format of Information  Disclosure by Companies Publicly Issuing Securities -- Contents and Format of Annual Reports (Revised in 2012)" (hereinafter referred to as the "Rules on Annual Reports") and the "SSE Stock Listing Rules (Revised in 2012)" (hereinafter referred to as the "Listing Rules"), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby notifies relevant issues as follows. I. General Requirement The revised "Rules on Annual Reports" released by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) in September 2012 takes effect on January 1, 2013. The revision substantially improves the pertinence and effectiveness of information disclosure of annual reports by listed companies. Listed companies' boards of directors should organize relevant personnel to earnestly study the "Rules on Annual Reports", strictly follow relevant documents newly released by the CSRC and the SSE, and timely compile, submit and disclose the annual reports of 2012. Directors, supervisors, senior management members, and other insiders of listed companies shall assume secret-keeping obligations during the compilation of annual reports. No one is allowed to divulge the contents of annual reports in any way before the disclosure. II. Detailed Requirements (I). Disclosure Time All companies listed on the SSE before December 31, 2012 should compile, submit and disclose the annual reports of 2012 before April 30, 2013 but not later than the time for disclosure of the first quarter reports of 2013. The companies newly listed between January 1 and April 30, 2013 should also disclose their annual reports of 2012 before April 30, 2013 if they fail to disclose the audited financial accounting information of 2012 in their listing announcements. The SSE encourages listed companies to publish their annual reports on their own websites, but the time cannot be earlier than that for disclosure on the SSE's website. If a listed company predicts it is unable to disclose its annual report of 2012 before April 30, 2013, it should submit a written report to the SSE before April 15, 2013, and announce the reason, solution and deadline of the postponed disclosure. The SSE will suspend trading of shares and derivatives issued by it from the first trading day in May 2013, and publicly criticize the company and those responsible. (II). Appointment Arrangement In order to avoid excessively concentrated disclosure of annual reports of listed companies, the SSE will in principle allow a daily maximum of 60 listed companies to disclose their annual reports according to the principle of balanced disclosure. Listed companies should arrange their compilation work and timely disclose their annual reports in line with the schedules appointed with the SSE. Schedules for listed companies to disclose their annual reports and any possible changes will be announced on the SSE's website. (III). Performance Prediction Listed companies should make performance predictions before January 31, 2013 according to the Articles 11.3.1 and 11.3.2 of the "Listing Rules". Audit committees and independent directors of listed companies should, in accordance with relevant regulations, timely communicate with the companies and their certified public accountants for annual audit, and pay attention to the performance predictions and relevant corrections. (IV). Performance Express A listed company should disclose the performance express according to the Articles 11.3.5 and 11.3.6 of the "Listing Rules" if its performance information is divulged in advance or abnormal fluctuation happens to trading of shares or derivatives issued by it because of performance rumors prior to the official disclosure of its annual report. (V). Registration of Insiders of Inside Information Listed companies should make efforts on the registration of insiders of inside information in the annual reports. If a listed company needs to submit information to external parties during the reporting period, it should register relevant staffs of the parties as insiders of inside information. (VI). Disclosure Focuses 1. Cash Dividend Distribution Listed companies should disclose in details the formulation and implementation of cash dividend distribution policies to make clear whether the policies accord with the provisions in the Articles of Association or meet the requirements of the resolutions at shareholders' meetings, the standards and proportions of cash dividend distribution are clear and explicit, relevant procedures and mechanisms for policy making are complete, independent directors fulfill their duties and play their roles, minority shareholders have the opportunities to express opinions and appeals, and their legal rights and interests are well protected. If a listed company needs to adjust or change its cash dividend distribution policy, it should explain in details whether the conditions and procedures for adjustment or change are compliant and transparent. If a listed company who has made profits in 2012 and whose parent company has made positive undistributed profits makes no scheme for cash profit distribution, it should present reasons in the announcement on resolutions of the directorate meeting that discuss and approve the annual report, and make clear the use and the plan for use of the undistributed profits. 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis Listed companies should give a retrospect and prospect of business performances within the reporting period and future development plans as well as risks in strict accordance with the requirements for information disclosure in the part of "Management's Discussion and Analysis" in the "Rules on Annual Reports". Non-financial information disclosed in the part of "Management's Discussion and Analysis" will be the focus of after-action check on annual reports. The SSE encourages news media, securities service intermediaries, and institutional investors to make professional evaluations on the effectiveness and adequacy of information disclosure in the part of "Management's Discussion and Analysis" for listed companies. 3. Internal Control When disclosing the annual reports of 2012, listed companies in the following cases should disclose directorates' self-evaluation reports on internal control (hereinafter referred to as the "internal control reports") according to the requirements in the guidelines published by the SSE for relevant formats. (1). SSE-listed companies in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector; (2). financial companies; (3). companies issuing shares both inside and outside China; (4). listed companies meeting the requirements in the "Notice on Implementation of System of Rules for Internal Control of Listed Companies on the Main Board by Category and in Batches in 2012" (Cai Ban Hui [2012] No. 30 Document). The SSE encourages those that plan to apply for qualifications in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector and other listed companies to disclose internal control reports. Those issuing shares inside and outside China as well as the listed companies meeting the requirements in the "Notice on Implementation of System of Rules for Internal Control of Listed Companies on the Main Board by Category and in Batches in 2012" (Cai Ban Hui [2012] No. 30 Document) should disclose audit reports issued by the certified public accountants on internal control of financial reports (hereinafter referred to as the "audit reports on internal control") together with internal control reports. The SSE encourages other listed companies to disclose audit reports on internal control. Other SSE-listed companies should also attach importance to the establishment of the internal control systems according to the "Basic Rules for Enterprises' Internal Control", the "Supporting Guidelines for Enterprises' Internal Control" and other requirements, and disclose the base for establishing internal control of financial reports and the status of the establishment of internal control systems in the part of "Internal Control". If a listed company discloses its internal control report and its audit report on internal control, its directorate should discuss those reports separately and disclose them on the SSE's website in the form of separate reports. 4. Social Responsibility Report SSE-listed companies in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector, those issuing shares both inside and outside China, and financial companies should disclose the reports on fulfillment of social responsibilities (hereinafter referred to as social responsibility reports) together with the annual reports of 2012. The SSE encourages other qualified listed companies to do so. If a listed company discloses its social responsibility report, its directorate should discuss the report separately and disclose the report on the SSE's website in the form of separate reports. 5. Commitments If a listed company's shareholders or transaction counterparts have made commitments on the performance of the company or that of the injected assets in 2012, the directorate should pay attention to the fulfillment of the commitments. If the accounting firm issues the special examination opinion on it, the company should disclose the opinion together with the annual report on the SSE's website. If the performance of the company or that of relevant assets in 2012 fails to reach the level as promised, the company should separately discuss the spread between the actual profit and the promised amount, specify in details the spread and the measures already taken or to be taken by the company, and urge relevant shareholders or transaction counterparts to fulfill the commitments at the directorate meeting discussing and approving the annual report. Listed companies should disclose the commitments made by themselves and their shareholders with shareholding proportion above 5% according to the requirements in the "Rules on Annual Reports". If a listed company's controlling shareholder fails to fulfill the commitment, the directorate should urge the controlling shareholder to make new commitments or propose compensation schemes after going through the necessary procedures. 6. Capital Occupation If a listed company's controlling shareholder and related parties occupy non-operating capital, the company should disclose the case in strict accordance with the requirements in the "Rules on Annual Reports". The certified public accountant should, according to the provisions in the "Notice of Some Issues on Regulating Fund Transfer Between Listed Companies and Related Parties and Outward Guarantee Provided by Listed Companies" (Zheng Jian Fa [2003] No. 56), issue the special examination opinion on capital occupation by the listed company's controlling shareholder and other related parties, and the opinion should be disclosed on the SSE's website. 7. Rule-breaking Purchase and Sale of Shares in Listed Companies If a listed company's directors, supervisors, senior management members, and shareholders with shareholding proportion above 5% are suspected of illegal purchase and sale of shares in the company during the reporting period, or such suspected irregularities occur and the incomes from them have been disclosed to be withdrawn by the company, the company should disclose the time and the amount of withdrawing the incomes by the directorate in the "Significant Events" in the full text of the annual report. 8. Accounting Changes and Errors If a listed company has made changes to accounting policies and accounting estimations or made modifications to significant accounting errors during the reporting period, it should make remarks in the annual report according to the requirements in the "Rules on Annual Reports". Besides, when submitting the annual report, the listed company should also submit to the SSE the written report on the opinions of the directorate, the board of supervisors, and independent directors as well as relevant remarks by the accounting firm on the above changes and modifications. The remarks by the accounting firm should include the reasons for the above changes and modifications, the detailed accounting treatments, the involved amount on previous years' financial positions and operating results concerning retroactive adjustments, and whether necessary communication has been conducted with the former accounting firm in case of the change of accounting firm. If a listed company needs to make retroactive adjustments to its financial data of the previous reporting period in the annual report for modifying significant accounting errors, it should disclose the modification of significant accounting errors, the directorate's accountability measures towards relevant persons in charge, and the treatment result in the form of temporary announcements before or on the disclosure date of the annual report according to the CSRC's regulations. 9. Non-standard Unqualified Audit Opinion If a listed company's accounting firm issues non-standard audit opinions (including qualified opinion, disclaimer of opinion, adverse opinion, and audit opinion with unqualified opinion on stressed issues or other issues) on the company's financial accounting report of 2012, the company should submit relevant documents to the SSE in accordance with the provisions in the Chapter VI of the "Listing Rules". If a listed company's accounting firm issues disclaimer of opinion or adverse opinion on the company's financial report of 2012, the company should disclose a risk alert every half-month from the disclosure day of the annual report of 2012 till the settlement day of the involved issues or the disclosure day of the semi-annual report of 2013. The risk alerts should specify the company's latest operating performance and the progress in the involved issues. 10. Convertible Corporate Bonds Listed companies issuing convertible bonds should additionally disclose relevant contents in the annual reports according to the requirements in the Chapter VI of the "Listing Rules". 11. Special Industries Commercial banks, insurance companies, securities companies, and companies engaged in real estate development should execute the special information disclosure regulations formulated by the CSRC for special industries or businesses. (VII). Continuous Supervision A listed company during the course of the continuous supervision of the sponsor institutions or financial advisers, should, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the CSRC and the requirements of the "Guidance for the Work of Continuous Supervision of Listed Companies" of the SSE, submit the sponsor institution's report on the work of continuous supervision or the financial advisers' opinions on continuous supervision to the SSE in the prescribed period after the disclosure of the annual report, and disclose them on the website of the SSE. (VIII). Debriefings of Independent Directors In accordance with the relevant business memorandums of the SSE, the independent directors of the listed companies should earnestly complete the work on the annual debriefings, providing summary and accounts for performing duties in the year. The annual debriefings of the independent directors should be disclosed separately on the website of the SSE at the same time when the company's annual report is disclosed. (IX). Other Requirements A listed company should complete the preparation of the annual report within two working days after the accounting firm issues the audit report, and submit the following documents to the SSE within two working days after the discussion and approval of the annual report by the directorate, 1. Documents to be submitted by the company (1) the full text and summary of the annual report of 2012 signed by the incumbent legal representative of the company and sealed by the company; (2) the announcement on directorate resolutions; (3) the self-evaluation report on the internal control (if applicable); (4) the social responsibility report (if applicable); (5) the directorate's special remarks on issues involved in the non-standard unqualified auditing opinions (if applicable); (6) the directorate's special report on deposit and usage of this year's raised funds (if applicable); (7) the directorate's remarks on change of accounting policies or estimation and the modification of significant accounting errors (if applicable); (8) the independent director's special remarks on the company's outward guarantees; (9) the independent director's opinions on issues involved in the non-standard unqualified auditing opinions (if applicable); (10) the annual debriefing of the independent director; (11) the announcement on resolutions of the board of supervisors; (12) the board of supervisors' opinion towards the directorate's special remarks on issues involved in the non-standard unqualified auditing opinions (if applicable); and (13) the board of supervisors' remarks on change of accounting policies or estimation and the modification of significant accounting errors (if applicable). 2. Documents to be submitted by an accounting firm (1) the audited financial report of 2012 of the company issued by the accounting firm; (2) the special remarks of the accounting firm on the company's capital occupation by controlling shareholder and its related parties; (3) the special remarks issued by the accounting firm on issues involved in the non-standard unqualified auditing opinions (if applicable); (4) the special examination report issued by the accounting firm on deposit and usage of the company's raised funds (if applicable); (5) the remarks issued by the accounting firm on change of accounting policies or estimation and the modification of significant accounting errors (if applicable); (6) the special examination report issued by the accounting firm on the realization of profit prediction in the significant assets reorganization (if applicable); and (7) the audit report issued by the accounting firm on the internal control of financial report (if applicable); 3. The sponsor's special verification and examination report on deposit and actual usage of the company's raised funds (if applicable). 4. Documents for Filing (1) The resolution of the directorate, the written confirmation of the annual report of 2012 signed by directors and the senior management, as well as special remarks and independent opinions on the outward guarantee signed by independent directors; (2) The resolution of the board of supervisors and a written verification opinion of the annual report put forward by the board of supervisors in the form of its resolution; and (3) The WORD file of the annual report of 2012, and the XBRL instance documents of the annual report of 2012 generated by the SSE information disclosure reporting system. A listed company should file completely and correctly the content required by the information disclosure reporting system. The XBRL instance documents and the announcement document of the annual report will be disclosed on the SSE's website. After the disclosure of the annual report, the SSE will carry out the assessment on the contents of XBRL information collection filed by the listed company, which will be used as an important basis for the annual assessment on the work of Secretary to Directorate. 5. Instructions on Submission A listed company should submit its annual report of 2012 through the SSE's electronic system of information disclosure in accordance with the requirements of the "No. 2 Guidance for the Submission of the Information Disclosure Documents of the Memorandum for the Listed Companies' Work on Day-to-day Information Disclosure". The SSE will implement after-action check on the annual reports of the listed companies. After receiving the examination opinions of the SSE, the companies are supposed to provide written explanations on the issues involved, and timely publish relevant supplementary and modification announcements in the designated newspapers and on the SSE's website as required by the SSE, as well as disclose the modified full texts of the annual reports on the SSE's website. Source:Shanghai Stock Exchange 

SSE Risk Alert Board Opened to Implement Delisting Supporting System
31 Dec 2012
  As one of the measures for implementing the delisting supporting system and boosting the steady progress in the delisting system's reform, the "SSE Provisional Regulations on Share Trading on Risk Alert Board" will be enacted on January 1, 2013. In light of the market closure of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) during the New Year's Day holiday, the SSE Risk Alert Board will actually be opened on January 4, 2013. According to an SSE official, shares on the Risk Alert Board are classified into the two categories, namely, the category of "Shares with Delisting Risk Alert" and that of "Shares under Delisting Arrangement". Presently, the shares issued by twenty-three ST companies and twenty *ST companies have been included into the category of "Shares with Risk Alert", while no shares have yet been counted as the category of "Shares under Delisting Arrangement". From January 4, 2013, the "Shares with Risk Alert" issued by the 43 companies above will be traded on the Risk Alert Board. The official added that with the development of the market and the changing circumstances of listed companies, the shares entering the SSE Risk Alert Board will also change accordingly. As a result, the number of "Shares with Risk Alert" may increase or decrease, while "Shares under Delisting Arrangement" may appear as well. As differences exist in terms of quotation display, investor suitability management, trading arrangement, measures on market surveillance, and trading information disclosure between the shares with risk alert and other kinds of shares, investors should pay close attention to the following aspects: Firstly, in terms of the quotation display, trading information of shares on Risk Alert Board is different from that of other kinds of shares. That is, trading information of "Shares with Risk Alert" and that of "Shares under Delisting Arrangement" will be displayed separately in the quotation of relevant shares. Secondly, with regard to the investor suitability management, before placing orders for purchasing shares on the Risk Alert Board upon entrustment, apart from meeting the general conditions for the purchase as required, investors should meet the following two requirements: for one thing, investors should sign the "Letter for Risk Disclosure of Shares with Risk Alert" or the "Letter for Risk Disclosure of Shares under Delisting Arrangement" in electronic or written form before they firstly apply for purchasing shares with risk alert or those under delisting arrangement, respectively. For the other, investors are required to read and confirm the risk alert notice each time before they submit entrustment letters of purchasing "Shares under Delisting Arrangement". Besides, investors' selling shares on the Risk Alert Board are not under the restrictions above. Thirdly, when it comes to the trading arrangement, on one hand, investors of the "Shares with Risk Alert" and the "Shares under Delisting Arrangement" could only adopt limit orders, instead of market orders; on the other hand, trading limits of "Shares with Risk Alert" and "Shares under Delisting Arrangement" stand at ±5% and ±10%, respectively. Fourthly, in regard of the measures on market surveillance, firstly, a new type of abnormal fluctuation is added for "Shares with Risk Alert". That is, when the turnover rate on the very day reaches 30%, which constitutes an abnormal fluctuation in trading, the SSE could impose intraday trading suspension until it is within 5 minutes before the closing of trading on the very day; secondly, the number of a single kind of shares with risk alert accumulatively bought by a single account on a single trading day should not exceed the maximum of 0.5 million. Fifthly, in terms of the trading information disclosure, if the stray value of the daily trading limit of the closing prices of shares with risk alert has accumulatively reached ±15% for 3 consecutive trading days, the SSE will respectively announce the names of the top 5 member business departments in the accumulative amounts for purchase and sale during the period of abnormal fluctuation in trading of the shares, as well as the amounts for purchase and sale; for the shares under delisting arrangement, the SSE will make special announcements on the names of the top 5 SSE-member securities business departments in the amounts for purchase and sale on the very day, as well as the amounts for purchase and sale. Investors can find the disclosed information in the section of "19. Securities in Delisting Arrangement Period" in the column of "Publicized Trading Information" on the SSE's website (www.sse.com.cn) by following the route of "Information Disclosure - Trading Information Disclosure - Publicized Trading Information". Finally, the official reminds that except for the aforesaid issues, investors intending to buy or sell shares on the Risk Alert Board should read the full texts of the "SSE Provisional Regulations on Share Trading on Risk Alert Board", the "SSE Detailed Rules for Business in Delisting Arrangement Period", the "SSE Trading Rules (Revised in 2012)", the "SSE Share Listing Rules (Revised in 2012)", and the SSE's notices on relevant businesses, so as to acquire the detailed knowledge of the relevant rules and regulations as well as investment risks for the Risk Alert Board, and make prudent decisions according to their risk profiles and investment preferences. Source:Shanghai Stock Exchange

Brief Introduction of Shanghai Market
31 Dec 2012
 Data collected before December 31, 2012.     Value Based on End of Last Year ± Increase or Decrease (%) Index SSE Index 2269.13 69.71 3.17 SSE 180 Index 5550.09 540.80 10.80 SSE 380 Index 2944.82 -34.07 -1.14 Variety No. of Listed Companies 954 23 2.47 Stocks Total Amount 998 23 2.36 No. of Companies Issuing A Shares 944 23 2.50 No. of Companies Issuing B Shares 54 0 0.00 Bonds Total Amount 1059 374 54.60 No. of  Spot Bonds Listed 1021 386 60.79 No. of  Bonds Listed for Repurchase 38 -12 -24.00 Funds No. of  Funds 41 5 13.89 No. of  ETFs 29 6 26.09 Scale Stocks Total Market Value (RMB100 Million) 158698 10322 6.96 Market Value of Shares without Sales Limit (RMB100 Million) 134294 11443 9.31 Issued Shares (100 Million Shares) 24618 1151 4.90 Shares without Sales Limit (100 Million Shares) 19521 1528 8.49 Bonds Total Value of Entrusted Bonds (RMB100 Million) 10663 3278 44.40 Funds Total Market Value (RMB100 Million) 948 225 31.18 ETFs (RMB100 Million) 694 229 49.20 Static Price-to-earnings Ratio Stocks Market 12.30 -1.11 -8.25 SSE 180 10.86 -0.83 -7.10 SSE 380 20.67 -1.65 -7.40 Accounts Opened Total Amount of Investor’s Accounts Opened (10 Thousand) 10968 429 4.07 Total Amount of  Accounts of A Shares Opened (10 Thousand) 8840 289 3.39     Value Based on the End of Last Year ± Increase or Decrease (%) Deals Stocks Total Amount (RMB 100 Million) 164545 -73015 -30.74 Bonds Total Amount (RMB 100 Million) 379819 169068 80.22 Spot Bonds (RMB 100 Million) 8443 2314 37.75 Bonds for Repurchase (RMB 100 Million) 371376 166755 81.49 Funds Total Amount (RMB 100 Million) 3171 270 9.30 Total Amount of ETFs (RMB100 Million) 3027 327 12.13 Capital Raising and Financing   Stocks Total Amount of Capital Raised (RMB 100 Million) 2890 -309 -9.67 No. of IPO Companies 25 -13 -34.21 Total Amount of Capital Raised by IPO Companies (RMB 100 Million) 334 -680 -67.10 Bonds Total Financing Amount  (RMB 100 Million) 1988 688 52.87 No. of Companies Conducting Financing 151 96 174.55     Notes: All the bonds for financing included in the above table have been approved by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. All the data of the entrusted bonds and opened accounts are collected before December 28, 2012.

Announcement about Adding Tax Factor into SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index
28 Dec 2012
  After a thorough discussion, we decided to add a tax factor into the calculation of SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index. The tax factor is set to 0.8. The adjustment will take effect on January 4th, 2013. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., LTD December 28th, 2012 Source:Shanghai Stock Exchange

Constituent Periodical Review of SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index
28 Dec 2012
 (To be effective as of Jan 4th 2013)     Deletions Additions Bond Code Bond Shortened Name Bond Code Bond Shortened Name 122016 09中材债 122051 10石化01 122068 11海螺01 122067 11南钢债 122070 11海航01 122106 11唐新01 122079 11上港02 122593 12衡城投 122080 11康美债 122836 11盘锦债 122093 11中孚债 122932 09宜城债 122115 11华锐01 122940 09咸城投 122149 12石化01 122996 08常城建 122150 12石化02 122102 11广汇01 122151 12国电01 122035 09苏高新 122802 11辽阳债 122036 09沪张江 122875 10红投02 122029 09万通债 122883 10楚雄债 122114 11一重债 122944 09株城投 122964 09龙湖债 122984 09六城投 122892 10寿光债 126008 08上汽债 122798 11泰矿债 126014 08国电债 122783 11苏中能       Shanghai Stock Exchange China securities Index Co., Ltd. Dec 28th, 2012

SSE Holiday Schedule for 2013
26 Dec 2012
  All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the holiday schedule for 2013 according to the "Notice of Arrangements for Market Closure for Public Holidays in 2013" from the China Securities Regulatory Commission (No. [2012] 116 by CSRC): I. Arrangements for market closure 1. New Year's Day: The Exchange will close from January 1 (Tuesday) to January 3 (Thursday) and open for trading on January 4 (Friday). It will also close on the weekend on January 5 (Saturday) and January 6 (Sunday). 2. Spring Festival: The Exchange will close from February 9 (Saturday) to February 15 (Friday) and open for trading on February 18 (Monday). It will also close on the weekend on February 16 (Saturday) and February 17 (Sunday). 3. Tomb Sweeping Day: The Exchange will close from April 4 (Thursday) to April 6 (Saturday) and open for trading on April 8 (Monday). It will also close on April 7 (Sunday). 4. Labor Day: The Exchange will close from April 29 (Monday) to May 1 (Wednesday) and open for trading on May 2 (Thursday). It will also close on the weekend on April 27 (Saturday) and April 28 (Sunday). 5. Dragon Boat Festival: The Exchange will close from June 10 (Monday) to June 12 (Wednesday) and open for trading on June 13 (Thursday). It will also close on the weekend on June 8 (Saturday) and June 9 (Sunday). 6. Mid-Autumn Festival: The Exchange will close from September 19 (Thursday) to September 21 (Saturday) and open for trading on September 23 (Monday). It will also close on September 22 (Sunday). 7. National Day: The Exchange will close from October 1 (Tuesday) to October 7 (Monday) and open for trading on October 8 (Tuesday). It will also close on the weekends on September 28 (Saturday), September 29 (Sunday), October 12 (Saturday), and October 13 (Sunday). II. Issues related to clearing are carried out according to the arrangements of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. III. Issues about testing in the Spring Festival and the National Day are subject to further notice. Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Source:Shanghai Stock Exchange

11th China Corporate Governance Forum Held in Shanghai
20 Dec 2012
  Sponsored by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the China Association for Public Companies (CAPCO), the 11th China Corporate Governance Forum themed "Rewards to Shareholders and Corporate Governance", under the auspices of the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC) of the State Council and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), was held in Shanghai on December 19, 2012 to mark the 22nd birthday of the SSE. SSE President Huang Hongyuan presided over the opening ceremony of the forum. The officials present conferred two special awards, namely the Award for Board of Director in 2012 and the Award for Information Disclosure in 2012, on prize-winning listed companies. Present at the ceremony were Chen Qingtai, Chairman of the CAPCO, Zhuang Xinyi, Vice Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), Shao Ning, Deputy Director of the SASAC of the State Council, Tu Guangshao, Vice Mayor of Shanghai, Li Xiaoxue, Executive Vice Chairman of the CAPCO, Chen Dongzheng, Governor of the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, and Gui Minjie, Governor of the SSE. Also attending the forum were representatives from the CSRC, the SASAC of the State Council, the CAPCO, the OECD, listed companies, institutional investors at home and aboard, intermediaries, and news media, as well as experts and scholars. Zhuang Xinyi pointed out that full play should be given to the roles of information disclosure, small and medium-sized investors, and administrative supervision in the corporate governance. Sound and transparent information disclosure are helpful in the examination and evaluation on the corporate governance, thus enabling the market to reward and punish companies according to their deeds and to ensure survival of the fittest. In light of the current limited role of small and medium-sized investors in the corporate governance, it is suggested that communication technologies be applied to provide direct channels and interactive platforms characterized by further diversity and convenience for small and medium-sized investors. Intermediaries could conduct the entrusted management business of shareholders' interests, so that they could collect thoughts and requirements of small and medium-sized shareholders for exercising voting rights and making proposals on their behalf. Furthermore, regulatory authorities should guard bottom lines, crack down on illegal behaviors including occupation, fraud, and false disclosure, build up and defend for the integrity system, and cement integrity-oriented constraints in the market. Besides, these authorities should analyze and compare all kinds of information, detect and track relevant problems, apart from publicizing regulatory information to propel the transparency.  Chen Qingtai said that as corporate governance is the most important systematical construction in China's micro-economy, China's capital market, a strong force to drive the domestic corporate governance, should build itself into an incubator of globally competitive companies. As the gist of corporate governance is to safeguard shareholders' rights and interests, efforts should be made to boost the corporate governance in the following aspects. On one hand, supervision on executives of companies should be intensified to prevent them from turning into internal controllers; on the other hand, controlling shareholders are required to exercise self-discipline according to the "Company Law". Shao Ning stressed that a great progress has been made in the capitalization of state-owned assets as listed companies witnessed the capitalization of 69.7% of the central state-owned enterprises' total net assets. The reform's effects are outstanding as listed companies are under the regulation of the capital market and the supervision of public investors, with their operational transparency and standardization improved substantially. After extending congratulations on the opening of the forum on behalf of the Shanghai Municipal Government, Tu Guangshao held that the proper treatment of rewards to shareholders and corporate governance not only responds to the issues concerned by shareholders but also exerts positive effects on the securities market's development. The government has always attached great importance to the growth of listed companies. Specifically, the government encourages enterprises to go public and promotes the overall listing of listed companies by taking advantage of the capital market, with an aim of realizing resource allocation and structural adjustment, as well as increasing the securitization ratio. Besides, the government has consummated a series of policies to drive the corporate governance, so as to pave a solid foundation for the municipality's economic and social growth. Finally, Gui Minjie emphasized that corporate governance is not only the foundation of an enterprise's sustainable growth, but also a key to the formation of a mature capital market. Sound corporate governance calls for concerted efforts from all walks of life. Over the past years, the SSE and the listed companies have jointly conducted extensive research, discussion, and promotion in terms of best practices, investor protection, directorate operation, information disclosure, social responsibility, and others in the corporate governance. In future, the SSE will improve the governance mechanism for the complete process of restructuring, shares issuance, regulation, and delisting, as well as further give full play to the fundamental role of the market in the corporate governance. Moreover, efforts should be made to create a good cyclical system featuring "Survival of The Fittest", facilitate the reinforced rationalization of listed companies, and enhance the capital market's capability of serving the real economy, in addition to building up and perfecting the investor protection system for elevating the constraints of small and medium-sized shareholders towards listed companies and relevant major shareholders. Representatives present at the forum conducted heated and effective discussions on the two topics, namely, "Rewards to Shareholders and Sound Development of Securities Market" and "Rewards to Shareholders and Growth of Institutional Investors". It is learnt that the China Corporate Governance Forum has been held successively since 2002. From 2009, the special awards for corporate governance have been granted at the annual event to excellent representatives in the corporate governance. The forum has contributed to the progress of the domestic corporate governance as it has spread advanced experience and presented exemplary models for the corporate governance, and consistently improved the governance of listed companies. Source:Shanghai Securities News

Gui Minjie: Sound Corporate Governance, Foundation of Enterprises for Sustainable Development
20 Dec 2012
  Governor Gui Minjie of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) delivered a keynote speech at the 11th China Corporate Governance Forum themed "Rewards to Shareholders and Corporate Governance" held yesterday. According to him, good organizational structure for corporate governance is a basis and guarantee for enterprises to keep sustainable development and long-term prosperity. Gui Minjie made the following four points in his speech. Firstly, corporate governance is the foundation for enterprises to keep sustainable development. In his opinion, the development and effectiveness of corporate governance is undoubtedly one of the most important indicators among those for judging whether a company can achieve sustainable development and keep competitive. In particular, with the promotion of the market-oriented economy and the deepened development of the modern enterprise system, corporate governance, which has aroused wide attention, has become the most important factor for stakeholders to evaluate companies. Therefore, good organizational structure for corporate governance is a basis and guarantee for enterprises to keep sustainable development and long-term prosperity. Secondly, corporate governance is the key for the capital market to grow mature. Gui Minjie said that mature listed companies mark a mature capital market in one respect. Over the years, the capital market has advanced the transition of state-owned enterprises in managerial mechanism and the establishment of modern corporate governance in China. In the company system, the governance structure composed of shareholders' meeting, board of directors, and board of supervisors as well as senior management team has been set up at first, which helps to establish the market-based external governance mechanism, strengthen the market discipline mechanism, and enhance the influence of the market for corporate control and institutional investors. On the basis of the revised "Company Law" and "Securities Law", the regulation and control on corporate governance has been toughened. Mature corporate governance has propelled the capital market to become mature and both sides promote each other's development in a sustained way. A mature capital market calls for mature companies while companies can grow mature in a mature capital market in return. Thirdly, good corporate governance is the common goal for the SSE and listed companies. As mentioned by Gui Minjie, the SSE has made efforts to discuss and promote best practices, investor protection, and corporate social responsibility in the corporate governance. Every year, the special awards for corporate governance are granted at the China Corporate Governance Forum to advocate and promote the concept of corporate governance. In the next period, the SSE will renew its efforts to improve listed companies' information disclosure and compliance management, thus enhancing the capability of the capital market to serve the real economy. Finally, good corporate governance asks for the concerted efforts of all circles. Gui Minjie pointed out that there would be a long way to go for the capital market to propel the improvement of quality and effectiveness of listed companies although much progress had been made in this respect. Concerning this problem, Gui gave two suggestions. The one is to give further play to the fundamental roles in the market and enhance the influence of market discipline. The other one is to establish and rationalize the investor protection system, and elevate the constraints of small and medium-sized shareholders towards listed companies and relevant major shareholders. Source:Shanghai Securities News

Notice of Publishing Appraisal Results of Special Awards for Corporate Governance in 2012
19 Dec 2012
  All listed companies, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) keeps on with the appraisal of special awards for corporate governance of listed companies this year, with a view to encouraging listed companies to rationalize the operation of boards of directors and improve the quality of information disclosure, enhancing the corporate governance, and setting examples of the corporate governance. The SSE sets up two special awards for the corporate governance of listed companies, namely the Award for Board of Director of Listed Company in 2012 and the Award for Information Disclosure of Listed Company in 2012. After the launch of the appraisal, ten winners have been finalized for each award upon voluntary application by listed companies, verification of application materials, preliminary selection by the SSE's appraisal group, public disclosure, review by the committee of experts, as well as examination and approval by the SSE Presidents' Office meeting. Now the appraisal results are published to commend award-winning companies' great achievements in the corporate governance, publicize their experience in the corporate governance, and propel them to play their leading roles in the corporate governance. All award-winning listed companies are encouraged to give awards and commendations to the departments or individuals making outstanding contributions to the corporate governance. Good corporate governance is a basic guarantee for listed companies for rationalized operation and improved competitiveness. All listed companies should draw on the experience and merits of award-winning companies in the corporate governance, further strengthen the awareness of corporate governance, and boost the corporate governance, with an aim of jointly propelling the sustainable development of the capital market and the real economy. Source:Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Revising Some Articles in "SSE Trading Rules"
16 Dec 2012
  All market participants, To cooperate in carrying out the reform of the delisting system, upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has revised some articles in the "SSE Trading Rules". The revised parts are specified as follows. I. In the Article 3.4.13, the provision for the price limit on shares marked with "ST" or "*ST" is deleted while the provision of no price limit on shares relisted after delisting on the first trading day is added. This article is revised as follows: "The SSE imposes price limit on shares and funds, with the ratio of 10%. The formula for calculating price limit on shares and funds is shown below: Price limit = (closing price on the previous day) * (1 ± price ratio) The calculating result is rounded to the minimum price change unit. No price limit is imposed on the following securities on the first trading day: 1. IPO shares and closed-end funds; 2. Listed shares in additional issuance; 3. Shares whose listing is resumed after listing suspension; 4. Relisted shares after delisting; 5. Securities in other cases acknowledged by the SSE. Upon approval by the CSRC, the SSE has the right to adjust the ratio of price limit on securities." II. The Article 4.2.3 is deleted. III. In the Article 5.4.2, the provision of calculation of indicators for abnormal fluctuation is revised to re-calculation from the day of announcement, and the relevant stipulations for the deviation value of limit on closing prices of shares marked with "ST" and "*ST" are deleted. This article is revised as follows: "Auction trading of shares or closed-end funds is regarded as abnormal fluctuation in one of the following cases. The SSE will respectively announce the names of top five member business departments in the accumulative amounts for purchase and sale during the period of abnormal fluctuation in trading of the shares and closed-end funds, as well as the amounts for purchase and sale. 1. The stray value of daily limit on closing prices accumulatively reaches ±20% for three consecutive trading days; 2. The ratio of the average daily turnover rate to the average daily turnover rate in the previous five trading days reaches 30 for three consecutive trading days and the accumulative turnover rate reaches 20% for three consecutive trading days; 3. Other cases the SSE or the CSRC regards as abnormal fluctuation. The indicators for abnormal fluctuation are re-calculated from the day of announcement. The shares or closed-end funds with no price limit as stipulated in the Article 3.4.13 are not applicable to the calculation of indicators for abnormal fluctuation. Upon approval by the CSRC, the SSE has the right to adjust the accumulative proportion of stray value of price limit." IV. The Article 11.1 is revised as follows: "Other issues related to the trading of exchange traded open-ended index funds, bonds, bond repurchase, warrants, shares with risk alert, and shares for delisting arrangement are stipulated by the SSE separately." V. In the Article 11.4, two definitions are increased, which are specified below: "(X). Shares with risk alert refers to the shares on which the SSE imposes risk alert according to the "Stock Listing Rules"; (XI). Shares for delisting arrangement refers to the shares with their listing terminated upon decision-making by the SSE, but not delisted for being put in the delisting arrangement period." The above-mentioned revised contents will take effect from January 1, 2013. For the revised "SSE Trading Rules", please visit the SSE's website (www.sse.com.cn) for details. Source:Shanghai Stock Exchange

Q&A on SSE's Supporting Business Rules for Delisting
16 Dec 2012
  In 2012, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) released four sets of supporting business rules for the delisting system (the supporting business rules for delisting for short). In this regard, the SSE takes the interview about the rules above and relevant issues concerned by investors. I. What are the supporting business rules for delisting released this time and what are their purposes? SSE has released the four sets of supporting business rules, namely, the "SSE Provisional Regulations on Stock Trading on Risk Alert Board" (the "Provisional Measures on Risk Alert Board" for short), the "SSE Detailed Rules for Business in Delisting Arrangement Period" (the "Rules for Delisting Arrangement Period" for short), the "SSE Provisional Regulations on Share Transfer on Delisted Share Transfer System" (the "Regulations on Share Transfer" for short), and the "SSE Measures for Re-listing of Delisted Companies" (the "Measures for Re-listing" for short). The four sets of business rules involve the risk alert board, the delisting arrangement period, the delisted share transfer system, and the re-listing system, which have been stated clearly in the "Stock Listing Rules" released by the SSE upon revision on July 7, 2012. The four sets of rules released this time are the specification and embodiment of the aforesaid systems, with an aim to build up a comparatively complete, smooth and marketized delisting mechanism. After the release of the relevant business rules, the SSE delisting system for listed companies will involve risk alert, listing suspension, listing resumption, listing termination, delisting arrangement, delisted share transfer, re-listing, and others, which will not only be conducive to the revealing of risks in delisted companies, but also help investors make reasonable investment decisions, thus effectively protecting their interests. When drafting the four sets of business rules, the SSE adheres to the principle of making progress while ensuring stability based on the overall goal of keeping on deepening the reform of the securities market and the overall consideration of the interests of all the market participants. On the one hand, the exchange unswervingly goes on with the market-oriented reform, and boosts all the tasks about the new delisting system in an active and stable way, so as to achieve the expected goal of the reform. On the other hand, the exchange takes historical factors into full consideration and makes reasonable arrangements for the companies with their stock listing suspended before the release of the new delisting system, thus ensuring stable expectations of investors and a smooth transition from the old delisting system to the new one. II. Would you like to introduce the opinions solicitation concerning the supporting business rules for delisting in general? Public opinions have been duly solicited for all the four sets of supporting business rules released this time, with public opinions on the "Provisional Measures on Risk Alert Board" solicited on July 27, 2012 and those on the other three sets of rules solicited on November 30, 2012. During the period of soliciting public opinions, the SSE, by means of mail and fax, collected opinions and suggestions from market participants with a lot of methods, including inviting representatives of institutional investors, such as some securities and funds companies, as well as individual investors to attend symposiums. Judging from the feedbacks in general, since all of the systems involved in the four sets of rules have been specified in the "Stock Listing Rules" formerly revised and released by the SSE, market participants remarked favorably on the drafts for the four sets of rules. They held that the four sets of rules, which had taken the interests of all the market participants into consideration, would be conducive to a smooth transition from the old delisting system to the new one while implementing the new delisting system. Besides, they have also put forward suggestions on some specific systematical arrangements. The SSE thoroughly sorted out, analyzed and absorbed these opinions, and then amended and perfected the drafts for the four sets of rules. Noticeably, with regard to the non-uniform trading limit to be imposed on the shares with risk alert as mentioned in the drafts, the trading limit of ±5% remains unchanged by considering the market's trading practices over the past years and facilitating the trading of investors III. When will the risk alert board be launched, and what should be noticed by the investors? The "Provisional Measures on Risk Alert Board" is to be enacted from January 1, 2013. Given the SSE market closure during the New Year's Day holiday, the SSE risk alert board will be launched actually from January 4, 2013. The shares which will enter the risk alert board for trading will include those of ST companies, *ST companies, and companies in the delisting arrangement period. Investors should pay close attention to the differences in terms of trading arrangement, measures on market surveillance, investor suitability management, quotation display, and trading information disclosure between the shares with risk alert and other shares. As for the trading arrangement, firstly, investors of the shares with risk alert and those in the delisting arrangement period could only adopt limit orders, instead of market orders; secondly, trading limits of the shares with risk alert and those in the delisting arrangement period stand at ±5% and ±10%, respectively. In regard of the measures on market surveillance, firstly, a new type of abnormal fluctuation is added for the shares with risk alert, that is, when the turnover rate on the day reaches 30%, which constitutes an abnormal fluctuation in trading, the SSE could impose intraday trading suspension until it is within 5 minutes before the closing of trading on the very day; secondly, the number of a single kind of shares with risk alert accumulatively bought by a single account in a single trading day should not exceed the maximum of 0.5 million. In terms of the investor suitability management, firstly, investors should sign the "Letter for Risk Disclosure of Shares on Risk Alert Board" or the "Letter for Risk Disclosure of Shares in Delisting Arrangement Period" in written or electronic form before they apply for buying shares on the risk alert board or those in the delisting arrangement period. Secondly, investors are required to read and confirm the risk alert notice each time before they submit entrustment letters for buying shares in the delisting arrangement period. As for the quotation display, the trading information of the shares with risk alert is different from that of other shares. That is, the trading information of the shares with risk alert and the shares in the delisting arrangement period will be displayed separately in the quotation of relevant shares. In regard of the trading information disclosure, if the stray value of the daily trading limit of the closing prices of the shares with risk alert has accumulatively reached ±15% for 3 consecutive trading days, the SSE will respectively announce the names of the top 5 member business departments in the accumulative amounts for purchase and sale during the period of abnormal fluctuation in trading of the shares, as well as the amounts for purchase and sale; for the shares in the delisting arrangement period, the SSE will make special announcements on the names of the top 5 SSE-member securities business departments in the amounts for purchase and sale on the very day, as well as the amounts for purchase and sale. Investors can find the disclosed information in the section of "19. Securities in Delisting Arrangement Period" in the column of "Publicized Trading Information" on the SSE's website (www.sse.com.cn) by following the route of "Information Disclosure - Trading Information Disclosure - Publicized Trading Information". The SSE reminds investors that except for the aforesaid issues, investors should read the full texts of the "Provisional Measures on Risk Alert Board" and the "Rules for Delisting Arrangement Period", as well as the SSE's relevant business notices, so as to get full understanding of relevant regulations on the risk alert board and make prudent investment decisions. IV. Where are shares in the delisting arrangement period traded? What arrangements have been made for them? What need investors pay attention to? The delisting arrangement period is mainly designed to set up an exit mechanism for investors before a company's stock listing is terminated, helping to release relevant risks. Besides the exceptional arrangements for the transitional period as prescribed in the "Rules for Delisting Arrangement Period", a listed company's shares which are given a decision on listing termination shall enter the delisting arrangement period and be traded on the SSE's risk alert board according to regulations, with the trading limit of ±10%. As for the trading period, shares in the delisting arrangement period can be traded for thirty trading days, excluding the trading days for whole-day trading suspension which are not allowed to exceed five trading days in total to prevent stock trading from being suspended but with shares not delisted. As regards the risk prevention, two major measures are taken to prevent market speculation. On one hand, it is stipulated that the companies with their shares entering the delisting arrangement period for trading are not allowed to plan and prepare for or carry out significant assets reorganization. On the other hand, investors are informed of delisting risks and warned of rational investment. For example, investors who purchase shares in the delisting arrangement period for the first time need to sign the "Risk Disclosure Statement on Shares in the Delisting Arrangement Period" in written or electronic form. Besides, when clients submit the entrustment for purchase of shares in the delisting arrangement period, SSE-members should warn them of risks in an effective way. In addition, companies will disclose the risks of their shares to be delisted through announcements in accordance with regulations. As for the information disclosure, after a listed company's shares enter the delisting arrangement period, the company and the relevant information disclosure obligor should still fulfill relevant obligations. The company needs to make announcements before the shares issued by it enter the delisting arrangement period, on the first day of trading in the period, every five trading days in the first twenty trading days of trading in the period, and every day on the last five trading days. Moreover, the SSE requires members to inform clients of remaining trading days and other information related to the shares before opening every trading day. When doing trading of the shares in the delisting arrangement period, investors should pay particular attention to various risk alert information from listed companies and SSE-members, and carefully read the currently released "Rules for Delisting Arrangement Period". V. What are the interim arrangements in the "Rules for Delisting Arrangement Period" for the companies with their stock listing suspended before the release of the newly revised "Stock Listing Rules"? When rationalizing the delisting system, the SSE has made interim arrangements for the companies with their stock listing suspended before the release of the new delisting system in the notice of publishing the newly revised "Stock Listing Rules" by considering their conditions. Based on the same consideration, interim arrangements have also been made in certain parts of the "Rules for Delisting Arrangement Period". In general, if the shares of a listed company with its stock listing suspended before the release of the new "Stock Listing Rules" are given by the SSE a decision on listing termination, they will directly enter the delisting arrangement period within the stipulated time. However, the stock trading suspension of the companies with their stock listing having been suspended lasts for a long time. Therefore, to prevent over-speculation on the shares due to the reorganizations in the delisting arrangement period, if the companies are still carrying out significant assets reorganizations after the SSE gives them decisions on listing termination, they are allowed to choose whether to have their shares traded in the delisting arrangement period and terminate the significant reorganizations in the form of resolutions made at their shareholders' meetings after the day when the SSE makes decisions on listing termination. In other words, the companies, which are still carrying out significant assets reorganizations after the SSE gives them decisions on listing termination, make their own choices whether to have their shares traded in the delisting arrangement period through shareholders' meetings held within the stipulated time. If the companies decide to have the shares issued by them traded in the delisting arrangement period upon discussion at the shareholders' meetings, they must make decisions on the termination of significant assets reorganizations in the same proposals; otherwise, the shares issued by them will not be allowed to be traded in the delisting arrangement period. If the companies fail to hold shareholders' meetings within the stipulated time, the shares issued by them will not be traded in the delisting arrangement period and will be delisted by the SSE within five trading days after the expiration of the stipulated time. VI. What is the main purpose of the delisted share transfer system? The delisted share transfer system set up by the SSE mainly aims to provide delisted companies with share transfer, information disclosure and other services, including investor suitability management, transfer service, quotation disclosure, information disclosure, clearing and delivery, transfer behavior supervision, as well as distribution of rights and interests. To alleviate the burdens of delisted companies and bring investors convenience for share transfer, the "Regulations on Share Transfer" abides by the economy and convenience principles in mechanism design. In the delisted share transfer system, no agent brokers are set up and all the brokers can accept clients' entrustment. To reduce the cost of delisted companies in information disclosure, they can disclose information in an electronic way instead of publishing announcements in newspapers. Furthermore, to prevent market speculation, the "Regulations on Share Transfer" gives strict measures for restrictions on share transfer and measures for investor suitability management. VII. What is the delisted share transfer system applicable to? What need investors pay attention to? The delisted share transfer system is only applicable to SSE-delisted companies. In line with the SSE's current "Stock Listing Rules", if a listed company chooses the delisted share transfer system and signs the "Agreement on Share Transfer Services" with the SSE after its stock listing is terminated, the shares issued by it will enter the delisted share transfer system for transfer. The delisted share transfer system is different from the SSE's main board in share transfer arrangements, requirements for information disclosure, investor suitability management and other contents. Investors need to pay particular attention to the differences. The delisted share transfer system offers share transfer services every Monday to Friday. However, some restrictions are made on share transfer. Firstly, only one call auction and no consecutive auction is available every day. Secondly, the trading limit is 5%. Thirdly, only limit orders are allowed. The "Regulations on Share Transfer" stipulates basic requirements for information disclosure of delisted companies. Delisted companies shall disclose such information as periodic reports and announcements on significant events on their websites, the platforms designated by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) for information disclosure of unlisted companies, and the SSE official website. More strict requirements are specified in the delisted share transfer system for investor suitability management. For instance, individual investors are required to have the experience in stock investment for over three years, with the total assets of not less than RMB0.5 million in securities and fund accounts. Those who fail to meet the above requirements can only sell their shares in delisted companies through the delisted share transfer system. Besides, brokers are required to establish investor qualification review systems, conduct front control on investors, and work out lists of qualified investors. When transferring shares through the delisted share transfer system, investors should abide by the stipulations in laws and regulations, administrative rules and relevant business rules, and are not allowed to take part in insider trading, market speculation and other law-breaking behaviors. As for those involved in or possibly involved in abnormal transfers, the SSE will launch an investigation on them and take corresponding regulatory measures against them as appropriate. VIII. What's the purpose of establishing the re-listing system? Which companies can apply for re-listing? The re-listing system is set up to enable qualified delisted companies to have their shares traded on the main board market again, thus building a market mechanism conducive to listing, delisting and re-listing among the markets at different levels and promoting the implementation of the delisting system. The currently released "Measures for Re-listing" is the very embodiment of the above purpose. As for the scope of companies qualified for application for re-listing, the "Measures for Re-listing" stipulates that an SSE-delisted company can apply for re-listing if it meets specified conditions. In consideration of historic factors, the companies with their stock listing terminated by the SSE before the implementation of the "Measures for Re-listing" can apply for re-listing if they meet specified conditions. In addition, the "Measures for Re-listing" released this time stipulates the requirements for time interval of application for re-listing. Delisted companies which meet application requirements stipulated in the "Stock Listing Rules" can apply for re-listing after a fiscal year since the day when the shares issued by them enter the SSE delisted share transfer system or other over-the-counter markets for transfer. For the companies failing to coordinate with relevant delisting work, the SSE will not accept their applications for stock re-listing within thirty-six months. If the companies fail to win the SSE's approval for their applications for re-listing, they will not be allowed to re-apply for re-listing until at least six months later. IX. How are the requirements set for re-listing? Is it possible to bring about double standards for back-door listing? The requirements for delisted companies to apply for re-listing, which have been specified in the previously released "Stock Listing Rules", are set on the basis of their financial situations, abilities of continued operations, corporate governance and standardized operation by synthesizing opinions from all market participants and referring to the requirements for listing resumption and back-door listing. No requirements are increased or decreased in the "Measures for Re-listing" released this time. In particular, the "Measures for Re-listing" only stipulates the requirements and procedures for delisted companies' applications for re-listing but not for the mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations after delisting. After the release of the draft of the "Measures for Re-listing", some market participants worried about its uniformity with future rules for back-door listing, making the requirements for back-door listing lower. According to sources, as for the delisted companies involved in back-door listing and other issues related to mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations, relevant departments of the CSRC will effectively rationalize their behaviors in accordance with relevant regulatory rules for unlisted companies, thus making regulatory standards for mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations of delisted companies uniform with those for listed companies, and eliminating the double standards. X. What are review procedures for delisted companies' re-listing? What requirements are set for information disclosure and what stipulations are formulated on arrangements for re-listing? The review procedures for delisted companies' applications for re-listing are similar to those for the applications of listed companies with their stock listing suspended for listing resumption, which include delisted companies' applications, acceptance by the SSE, the examination and verification by the exchange's Listing Committee and the decision by the exchange. The "Measures for Re-listing" makes clear specific deadlines for all parts of the procedures. For example, the time for the SSE to decide whether to accept a delisted company's application is five trading days, excluding fifteen trading days for the company to supplement materials. Besides, the time for the exchange to examine a delisted company's application materials and make a decision is sixty trading days, excluding thirty trading days for the company to supplement materials. Moreover, a delisted company can apply for re-examination if the SSE decides not to approve its application for re-listing. In terms of the information disclosure, the "Measures for Re-listing" continues to center on information disclosure, and introduces the pre-disclosure system. It requires that delisted companies should disclose their applications (drafts) for re-listing, re-listing sponsor letters, and legal opinion letters on the SSE official website after the SSE accepts their applications. Besides, the companies are also required to timely disclose important information about the progress in examination and other major issues occurring during the application period. In addition, the SSE strengthens the role of intermediaries in assisting delisted companies with their applications for re-listing, makes specific requirements for the professional opinions of intermediaries, and stipulates main contents in sponsors' reports, sponsors' work papers as well as legal opinion letters. As for the arrangements for re-listing, two stipulations are mainly formulated. The one is for time. Having won approval for applications for re-listing, delisted companies should sign the agreements on re-listing with the SSE, and timely handle re-confirmation, registration, custody of shares and other relevant procedures within 3 months. The other one is for sales limit on re-listed shares. Relevant sales limits will be imposed on various types of shares issued by delisted companies according to their different natures and sources. Source:Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Publishing Delisting Supporting Business Rules
14 Dec 2012
  All market participants, To carry out the delisting supporting system and stably promote the reform of the delisting system, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated four sets of delisting supporting business rules (see attachments for details), namely the "SSE Provisional Regulations on Stock Trading on Risk Alert Board", the "SSE Detailed Rules for Business in Delisting Arrangement Period", the "SSE Provisional Regulations on Share Transfer on Delisted Share Transfer System", and the "SSE Measures for Re-listing of Delisted Companies". The above-mentioned four sets of rules are hereby released after having been approved by the SSE's Board of Governors upon discussion and the China Securities Regulatory Commission. Among the four sets of rules, the "SSE Provisional Regulations on Stock Trading on Risk Alert Board" will take effect on January 1, 2013 while the other three sets of rules come into force from the date of release. Attachments: I. SSE Provisional Regulations on Stock Trading on Risk Alert Board II. SSE Detailed Rules for Business in Delisting Arrangement Period III. SSE Provisional Regulations on Share Transfer on Delisted Share Transfer System IV. SSE Measures for Re-listing of Delisted Companies Source:SSE

Gui Minjie: Continue to Promote SSE's Legal Construction
12 Dec 2012
"Chairman Guo Shuqing of the China Securities Regulatory Commission elaborates on the direction and tasks for improving rule of law in the capital market in the next period to come and stresses the point of adhering to the rule-of-law development path in the innovation and development of the capital market in his article titled To Attach Greater Importance to the Role of Rule of Law in Promoting Innovation and Development of the Capital Market published on December 4, the National Law Publicity Day that has just passed", said Governor Gui Minjie of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) at the 3rd SSE Legal Forum on December 8, "These statements and viewpoints reflect the concept of securities and futures regulatory organs, which gives a good guidance for the legal construction of the capital market. In response, the SSE will go all out to coordinate with the regulatory organs for advancing the legal construction of the market". The 18th CPC National Congress has set the grand goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects by 2020 and expounded the importance and urgency of promoting rule of law in all respects. The congress has stressed that we should not only perfect the system of socialist laws with Chinese characteristics, promote law-based administration by practicing law enforcement in a strict, rationalized, fair and civilized way, and carry out publicity and education on legal systems to carry forward the socialist rule-of-law spirit, but also include freedom, equality, justice and other modern legal concepts together with rule of law in the socialist core value system. Gui Minjie said, "In future, we need to take it as an important task to further improve rule of law for promoting the scientific development of the capital market. By dint of system supply and innovation, we will improve rule of law in a scientific approach, and advance the development of the capital market to a new level". On that day, Gui Minjie elaborated on the SSE's principles and ways of further promoting legal construction from the following four points. First of all, the SSE should perfect the system of rules to meet the market demands for development and change. It is disclosed that up to now, over 220 rules have been put into use in the SSE market. The system of self-regulation rules with three basic rules for listing, trading and member management as a main part as well as detailed implementation rules, guidelines and notices as a supplement has taken shape. However, these rules are much involved in shares, pooled trading, regulation and entities but less related to bonds, funds and derivatives, non-pooled trading, services and procedures, which can no longer meet the actual demands of the SSE market for all-round development. "We need to push forward the formulation and revision of rules closely related to the reform and innovation of the market, and further expand the coverage of the rules, in a bid to boost the innovation and development of the market", said Gui Minjie. Besides, the SSE should earnestly fulfill its duties and strictly implement legal systems of the capital market. "Over the years, the SSE has endeavored to play its role as a guardian for the market order. With the expansion and complexity of the capital market, market participants have higher and higher requirements and expectations of the exchange for strictly enforcing laws, safeguarding fairness and justice of the market, and protecting rights and interests of investors. Therefore, the exchange needs to strengthen the law-enforcement and law-abiding concept, enrich the methods of self-regulation, and strive to fully and effectively play its role in punishing illegal and dishonest behaviors in the market and rationalizing the market order", said Gui Minjie. Moreover, Gui Minjie pointed out that the SSE would strengthen legal publicity to raise the legal awareness of market participants. Statistics shows that the SSE has launched lots of activities for legal publicity and education, such as compiling books and materials, setting up special columns in newspapers, opening business consulting services, establishing online colleges for investor education and organizing market trainings. In future, the exchange will innovate in the ways of legal publicity and education, enrich the means of legal publicity, and improve the effect of legal publicity for helping market participants to raise their awareness of integrity and compliance. Nowadays, the capital market attaches increasing importance to the legal construction while the market participants hold high expectations for the exchange's rule of law in its work. Therefore, Gui Minjie stressed at last that the SSE would handle affairs by law and promote rule of law in its work.

Xu Ming: Perfect Integrity System to Ensure 5 Innovations
12 Dec 2012
Xu Ming: Perfect Integrity System to Ensure 5 Innovations(2012-12-12)   "The capital market is highly dependent on integrity. Integrity is not only an ethical norm of the capital market, but also a principle in all commercial activities. The integrity principle underpins the innovation in the capital market", said Vice President Xu Ming of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) at the 3rd SSE Legal Forum on December 8, "Furthermore, a sound systematical design is key for innovation to ensure the integrity principle". Data in these years show that driven by the development of a series of infrastructures, both the interior and exterior environments for the development of the capital market have been constantly improved, which has paved the way for accelerating the innovation in the market. China's capital market has embarked on a new stage of innovative development, in which innovation has become a keynote of the development of China's capital market. In this regard, Xu analyzed the 5 aspects about propelling innovation in the future capital market as follows: Firstly, innovation is required for the market system. In vertical terms, a multi-tiered market, to be established and bettered step by step, will consist of the main board market, the SME board market, the growth enterprise board market, the national over-the-counter market (the third market), the regional over-the-counter market (the fourth market) and the OTC market, while the board switch mechanism will be established in due course and improved constantly. The multi-tiered market will be gradually built, with securities stratified by their own characteristics in the same market. Horizontally speaking, stock, bond, wealth management and derivatives markets and others will be built up to realize the synchronized development of the on-floor market and the over-the-counter market with a full range of investment tools of stocks and bonds, funds, spot goods and derivatives, thus changing the comparatively limited market varieties in terms of the market structure and layer, as China's capital market is mainly comprised of the exchange on-floor market, the stock market and the spot market. Secondly, innovation on the market trading varieties will be encouraged. A review of the data shows that the capital market has consecutively developed new trading varieties including ETFs, warrants, stock index futures, and SME private placement bonds. However, compared with the huge amount of bank savings and enormous demand for investment and wealth management, the problem of limited investment channels and varieties is still salient. "So, we should accelerate innovation for the development of more investment varieties by means including steadily launching assets management products and securities derivatives such as stock options", said Xu. Thirdly, trading manners in the market are also in need of innovation. Xu said, "Intense research are required on common trading manners in mature markets, such as market-maker trading, program trading, algorithmic trading, and high frequency trading, while innovation on trading mechanism should also be pushed forward on proper occasions". Besides, innovation on market regulation and market-based legal system is also needed. "Further amendments to the 'Securities Law' and the 'Company Law' should be resumed as soon as possible, while the enacting process of the 'Futures Law' should be accelerated. And efforts should be made to improve supporting judicial interpretations, laws, rules, and market business regulations", claimed Xu. It is worth special mentioning that the integrity principle is the foundation for the market innovation, while a systematical design is of utmost importance to ensure this principle. "In the process of market innovation, the systematical design for integrity-building should at least be reflected on the following three aspects: a system of detailed information disclosure, a sound regulatory system, and a strict accountability system", said Xu. With regard to the information disclosure system, Xu suggested that every innovation business need to specify the main body, content and time limit of information disclosure, especially the content, characteristic, legal relationship, risk, and other issues related to the business. Renewed efforts should be made to boost the information disclosure of innovation businesses, with an aim of ensuring the authenticity, accuracy, completeness, timeliness, and impartiality of innovation businesses. When it comes to the accountability system, Xu said, "Accountabilities on relevant products, service providers, intermediaries, market participants, and others should be strengthened. Moreover, pains should be taken to establish a reputation constraint mechanism and punish law-breakers for their dishonest deeds". Source:Shanghai Securities News

3rd SSE Legal Forum Unveiled in Shanghai
11 Dec 2012
  3rd SSE Legal Forum Unveiled in Shanghai (2012-12-11)   Sponsored by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and jointly organized by Peking University, Renmin University of China and East China University of Political Science and Law, the 3rd SSE Legal Forum themed "Integrity and Legal Construction of Capital Market" was unveiled in Shanghai on December 8. Chairman Guo Shuqing of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), Vice President Xi Xiaoming of the Supreme People's Court of China, Deputy Director An Jian of the Legislative Affairs Office of the State Council, Deputy Mayor Tu Guangshao of the Shanghai Municipal People's Government, and SSE Governor Gui Minjie delivered speeches respectively at the forum with over 80 attendees composed of experts and scholars from legislative, judicial and law enforcement departments, colleges and universities, and research institutions as well as market professionals. CSRC Chairman Guo Shuqing made some points at the forum. According to him, in the process of the reform and development of the capital market, we should always apply the rule-of-law approach to the regulation on markets and the guidance for expectations, and carry out the work in key links based on the basic requirements of legal and integrity construction. In particular, we should give priority to systems and push forward reform and innovation by law. Besides, we should practice strict law enforcement and maintain a market order in a legal way. Moreover, we should take disciplinary action against law-breakers, and guide and safeguard integrity and law-abiding conduct with systems and mechanism. Furthermore, we should promote law-based administration, and restrain regulatory power with legal norm. Chairman Guo said that the rule-of-law approach was good for rationalizing the use of power, promoting fair competition, boosting market innovation and stabilizing market expectation and confidence. To advance the reform and development of the capital market in new historical conditions, we need to give fuller play to the role of rule of law, and attach more importance to legal construction. Guo stressed that we needed to strengthen the study and research on securities legal systems, perfect the basic legal systems of the capital market, toughen the law enforcement on rule-breaking behaviors, reinforce the restraint and punishment on market participants, deepen the reform in law enforcement systems of the capital market, probe into the innovation in administrative reconciliation law enforcement mode, accelerate the improvement of civil compensation system for securities infringements, and implement the requirements of law-based affair-handling and administration. Vice President Xi Xiaoming of the Supreme People's Court of China pointed out in his speech that the people's court would help to rationalize and guide the capital market mainly by formulating relevant judicial interpretations and policies, hearing kinds of cases related to the capital market, settling various contradictions and disputes, punishing various illegal and criminal behaviors, and supporting regulatory departments for law-based administration and protection of legal rights and interests of administrative counterparts. According to Xi Xiaoming, the people's court will keep on providing powerful judicial services and guarantees for the development and integrity construction of the capital market. In the next period to come, the judicial organs will make efforts to improve the civil legal liability system and the criminal liability accountability system for the capital market, rationalize the investigation and control mechanism for frightening law-breakers and promoting integrity, and establish judicial teams and organizations meeting market demands. Deputy Director An Jian of the Legislative Affairs Office of the State Council said that the eternal theme of the capital market was to advocate, abide by and uphold integrity. According to him, the elimination of dishonest behaviors in the capital market asks for rule of law, which is the fundamental and long-term approach, and regulation as well as the self-awareness and self-discipline of the market participants. It is always the main and central part of securities legislation to set up the integrity rule in securities-related activities. Concerning the major problems involving integrity in the capital market, it is necessary to further probe into what to be improved and revised regarding integrity in the capital market in existing securities-related laws and regulations. Deputy Mayor Tu Guangshao of the Shanghai Municipal People's Government said that top priority should be given to creating an environment for rule of law and integrity in every part of the construction of the Shanghai International Financial Center. In recent years, Shanghai has made much progress in the integrity and legal construction of the financial market by issuing a series of local regulations, establishing some effective coordination mechanisms and professional judicial structures, and advancing the construction of the social credit system. In future, the city will strive to create a more favorable environment for rule of law and integrity by promoting financial innovation, protecting legal rights and interests of investors and financial consumers, preventing financial risks, safeguarding financial stability, and strengthening self-regulation. SSE Governor Gui Minjie also stressed that the scientific development of the capital market called for rationalized rule-of-law guarantee especially. The experience in the over-20-year capital market shows that the progress and development of the market is closely related to the rationalization and improvement of the legal construction in the market. The legal construction will show its increasing effect with the passage of time as it develops from an indirect and explicit way to a direct and implicit way. In other words, the legal construction will bring more positive effects with the gradual improvement in a long-term and stable approach. Therefore, the legal construction of the capital market requires long-term effort and perseverance. Gui Minjie said that the SSE would meet the market demands for development and change by perfecting business rules, implementing legal systems of the capital market, strengthening the publicity of legal systems and improving its work in a legal, rationalized and transparent approach. Firstly, the exchange should satisfy the market needs for development and change by perfecting its rule systems. Secondly, the exchange should earnestly fulfill its duties and strictly implement legal systems of the capital market. Thirdly, the exchange should strengthen the publicity of legal systems for raising the legal awareness of market participants. Fourthly, the exchange should handle affairs by law and promote rule of law in its work. When presiding over the forum, SSE President Huang Hongyuan said that the SSE was pushing forward the reform and innovation and speeding up the market construction for the purpose of better serving the real economy. In this process, the exchange will continue to abide by the rule-of-law principle and adopt the rule-of-law approach for promoting the market development. In the part of keynote speeches, Professor Wu Zhipan of Peking University, Professor Wang Baoshu of Tsinghua University, Professor Guo Feng of Central University of Finance and Economics, Professor Gu Gongyun of East China University of Political Science and Law, SSE Vice President Xu Ming and other famous legal experts delivered wonderful keynote speeches respectively. Xu Ming held that innovation had become the theme of the development of the Chinese capital market in the new period. In future, the innovation in the capital market can be pushed forward in terms of market system, market variety, market transaction, market regulation and market legal system. In particular, the innovation in the capital market asks for the support of integrity so emphasis should be laid on the establishment of a detailed information disclosure system, a good market regulatory system and a strict accountability system. In the part of special topic discussion, experts, scholars and market professionals from securities companies, fund management companies, listed companies, law firms and accounting firms present at the forum had a heated and fruitful discussion. The experts present at the forum said that concerted efforts of legislative, law enforcement and judicial authorities were needed for further advancing the integrity and legal construction of the capital market. To be specific, legislative authorities, in accordance with new characteristics of the market development, should put the revision of the Securities Law on the agenda to further give legal support for guiding law-abiding conduct and integrity and punishing illegal and dishonest behaviors. Besides, law enforcement authorities can draw on the experience of foreign regulatory authorities for reference in taking such measures as freezing of raised funds, heavy fine and punishment on sponsor against the rule-breakers for listing through fraudulence and packaging. In addition, judicial authorities are advised to accelerate the revision and improvement of judicial interpretations on civil compensation for securities infringements, and rationalize the system for civil compensation for securities infringements. According to sources, the SSE Legal Forum, founded in 2010, has been held for three years in a row. It has played an active role in deepening the legal research on the capital market, strengthening the interaction between theory and practice, and promoting the legal construction of the capital market. Developed with the forum at the same time, On Securities Law, a collection of over 200 excellent papers on securities-based rule of law, has been published by the Law Press in the form of 11 issues in 7 volumes. Source: Shanghai Securities News

Common Responsibility for SSE and Funds Industry: Striving for Satisfactory Returns for Investors
03 Dec 2012
  Common Responsibility for SSE and Funds Industry: Striving for Satisfactory Returns for Investors (2012-12-03)   Vigorously Developing Quasi Fixed Income Products Sharing Dividends of Blue Chips and Showing Promise By Huang Hongyuan, the SSE I. Current Situation and Challenges Since the first securities investment fund was introduced in 1998, China's fund industry has made brilliant achievements in its 15 years of development with 73 fund companies managing more than 1,300 public funds as well as a total asset of nearly RMB3 trillion. However, despite the rapid development, the industry is in the face of severe challenges. The first challenge is that the up-rising stars in the financial management industries such as banking, insurance, and trust have surpassed the fund industry in scale in a short time of few years with rapid development as newcomers. By the end of the third quarter of this year, the fund industry had only accounted for one tenth of the total volume of asset management in China with RMB8.09 trillion of the bank financing products, RMB6.32 trillion of trust assets, and RMB6.9 trillion of insurance assets. The second challenge is the undiversified combination of products, the dominance of equity products and few products of fixed income, and the products tracking commodities, real estate, precious metals and foreign exchanges to be popularized. There is a big gap between the situation and the demands of the investors for diverse financial management services. The third challenge is that the investment returns of the industry cannot meet the expectancy and the investors are not satisfied. Statistics show that the earnings of the funds in China have been less than those of the American funds as well as the sunshine private funds in China in recent years. There is also a big gap even between the bond-oriented fixed income funds in China and overseas as in recent three years, the annualized rate of return of the bond funds stood at 3.6% while the rate of 6.7% in the United States.   I believe that the colleagues in the fund industry are also fully aware of the seriousness of these challenges and have made unremitting efforts. The reasons for these problems are diverse, one of the important factors being the undesirable basic products and market environment. The following three aspects are related: First, the inadequate mechanism for dividend distribution of listed companies affects the rational valuation of stocks. It is not only the basic attributes of securities, the financial assets, but also the key factor for the rational pricing and valuation of stocks in classical theories for the shareholders as capital providers to obtain relatively stable and predictable cash returns. The experience of the sophisticated international markets has proved that only the establishment of effective and stable dividends distribution mechanism in listed companies can attract the institutional investors with long-term funds targeting the stable dividend earnings and adequate capital gains and result in relatively rational, stable and sound market valuation. The listed companies on the U.S. and European markets offered the investors cash returns mainly in the two forms of dividends and share repurchase. From 2004 to 2011, the S & P 500 constituent stock companies issued a total of US$1.8 trillion in dividends and repurchased the shares worth US$ 2.7 trillion. In 2011 the dividend rate of the S & P 500 index stood at 2.12%, and from the beginning of this year to mid-November, the rate was about 2.45% and a total share repurchase of more than US$200 billion was announced at the same time with the cash return rate of the year expected to be over 5%. In sophisticated markets, it is normal for listed companies to distribute dividends and there exists a market benchmark for dividend distribution of companies in effect. Therefore, the few exceptional companies with high growth and few dividends or even no dividends, such as Apple Inc., can be evaluated by investors with reference to the benchmark while the market, shareholders and the public opinions would be highly concerned about the effectiveness of the use of funds, thus forming strict supervision and restriction. In China, as quite a few listed companies have begun to vigorously implement the policies of dividend distribution in recent years, the dividend rates of the blue chip companies have reached or surpassed those in the overseas markets. However, in general, the lack of stable and predictable dividend distribution mechanism reduces the attraction to the long-term funds and value-oriented investors, and the stock valuations without solid base of investors are likely to cause excessively high or low stock prices. The lack of long-term funds on the capital market not only directly hinders the pricing function of the secondary market but also has adverse impact on the capital formation mechanism. If there is no effective dividend distribution mechanism to ensure adequate valuation on the market, the small and medium investors are easily locked up deeply with the loss of principals in the downturn of the market even when they try to gain price differences by doing band-like operations. The reason is that in the case of lacking long-term funds and value-oriented investors, the market mechanism urging the share prices to return to a rational level through buying with underestimated values and selling with overestimated values can hardly perform well due to the speculation on new shares, small-cap stocks, bad-performed shares, and short-term investment with the small and medium investors falling victim to the "professional speculators", thus resulting in the deterioration of the stock market environment. Second, the market depth for fixed income products is inadequate, and especially there is the lack of the major products of asset securitization with features of better earnings. China's bond market is yet to be developed and the asset varieties with better earnings in recent years such as gold and real estate have not been securitized, which are also important factors affecting the investment returns of the fund industry. In addition, there is the lack of risk management tools as well as securities and financial derivative products such as exchange-traded options. In the current market structure with inadequate risk hedging mechanism, the industry as a whole finds difficulty in avoiding the systemic risk of the whole stock market. II. The fund industry should promote the practice of shareholder activism and the acceleration of product innovation. As put forward in the Report to the 18th CPC National Congress, China should double its 2010 GDP and per capital income for both urban and rural residents by 2020. With a sharp rise in per capital income, the masses will have demands for a full-function and efficient modern wealth management platform. Chairman Guo of the China Securities Regulatory Commission has also pointed out that fund management companies should firmly establish a market-oriented and customer-focused business philosophy, and speed up the transformation to modern wealth management institutions. To attain this goal for transformation, fund companies can work together with brokers, insurance companies, trust companies and other professional investment institutions to give play to the role of institutional investors as the core members of market valuation and broaden the appeal of basic products, thus bringing investors predictable good returns. Firstly, fund companies should be highly engaged in the governance of listed companies, and become responsible, capable and motivated institutional investors. In the USA market and other mature markets, various institutional investors, especially pension funds, public funds and insurance institutions, which take an active part in corporate governance, are decisive external forces urging listed companies to improve governance mechanisms in the markets. In our country, institutional investors can do a better job by practicing the shareholder activism. Above all, responsible institutional investors will urge listed companies to establish a stable mechanism for dividend distribution as well as re-investment and development. Institutional investors as shareholders can specify dividend distribution policies in the Articles of Association through shareholders' meetings and set up a stable expectation of dividend distribution. As for the high-growth companies with no need for dividend distribution, institutional investors can require major shareholders, the boards of directors and the management teams to give sufficient reasons and establish corresponding examination, assessment and accountability mechanisms for re-investment. Besides, responsible institutional investors will restrain listed companies from abuse and excess of financing. The capital re-financed by listed companies comes from the hard-earned money of investors, so the companies' major shareholders and management teams shall be responsible for the direction of and return on financing. As regards the companies with a few cash dividends distributed, a large amount of financing and unsatisfactory returns which want to raise more funds, institutional investors as shareholders can actively advocate and require the companies to establish voting avoidance mechanisms for major shareholders and their related parties for an effective constraint on re-financing. Moreover, responsible institutional investors will propel listed companies to improve information disclosure and investor relations management for safeguarding investors' right to know. When some listed companies go through significant events or suffer from sharp fluctuations in business performance, they often do nothing else but make an announcement, with details little known to the market. In this case, fund companies and other institutional investors can require the companies' chairmen of the board of directors and general managers to hold an on-spot explanation meeting or a business performance promotion meeting for explaining reasons to investors, analysts and the media and answering questions for them face to face. If necessary, institutional investors can also require the companies to hold special shareholders' meetings and suggest changing directors and senior management members for timely improving the companies' development strategies. Secondly, fund companies should strengthen product innovation and develop low-risk products with fixed and quasi fixed income. Fixed-income products account for about 50% of the fund management assets in mature markets compared with not more than 20% in China. Therefore, to develop fixed-income products will be an important approach for the Chinese fund industry to expand its business scale in future, which not only meets the risk appetites and wealth management demands of most of small investors, but also serves as an important way to boost investors' confidence. Recently, the Capital Market Institute and the Financial Innovation Laboratory of the SSE published two research reports in which the current market valuation and the market operation quality were studied. At present, the price-earnings ratio of the SSE 50 Index is 8.5 while that of the SSE 180 Index is 9. The dividend rates of the SSE 50 Index and the SSE 180 Index is 3.63% and 3.38% respectively. Statistics shows that the market valuation reaches a historical low. Historical data also show that medium and long-term investment at low valuations always results in good returns. Since this year, QFIIs, RQFIIs and other institutional investors have invested about RMB50 billion net capital in SSE-listed A shares, and especially they increased their investments in the past two months, which reflects their full recognition of the investment value of the current A share market. Many experts think highly of the long-term investment value of blue chips amid the current extreme market downturn. However, due to the short-term fluctuations of the market and the follow-suit of individual investors, individual investors often find it difficult to share the potential long-term investment income and many Chinese investors tend to choose low-risk wealth management products. Concerning this situation, quite a few experts and scholars have put forward at overseas market promotion meetings and domestic seminars since September this year that products which could meet the demands of investors with low-risk appetite and share the development space of the future stock market would be developed at a proper time to help investors to seize good opportunities of value investing and also boost the market demand and the capital supply for blue chips. They come up with three kinds of products. The first is a kind of products transforming the development space of the future market into quasi fixed income. Fund companies can cooperate with investment banks to devise index-linked structured products with principal-guaranteed and return-capped income for investors. This kind of products is commonly seen in Europe and the USA, which can be used by the Chinese fund industry for reference. The second is a kind of product portfolio of convertible bonds. Listed companies can be promoted to issue convertible bonds with conversion prices higher than market prices and repurchase shares with raised funds. Fund companies can create product portfolio of convertible bonds, which can provide safe products with potential high yield for investors and also support listed companies for keeping an image of stock prices in a reasonable way. The third is a kind of products linked with dividend. Statistics shows that nearly a hundred SSE-listed companies have their after-tax dividend rate over the one-year bank deposit rate, with the average after-tax dividend rate reaching 4.34% and the negotiable market capitalization accounting for one quarter of the total on the SSE market. Graded products separating the dividend distribution of those companies from the fluctuations on the secondary market could be developed to provide investment products with double dividend rate for investors with low-risk appetite. With the increasing attention of all the market participants on dividend distribution, listed companies will be pushed forward to elevate the rate of dividend. Over 200 listed companies are qualified to develop such kind of dividend-linked products, whose market capitalization reaches nearly RMB8 trillion in total, accounting for a half of the total market capitalization of the SSE-listed companies. These kinds of products mentioned by the experts involve a lot of work on data mining and knowledge of financial engineering, which product developers in the fund industry can conduct demonstration and research on. III. The SSE should transform itself into a service provider and strive to create a favorable market environment. The SSE as an organizer and a service provider of the securities markets has been committed to improving the market environment, offering services for investors and promoting innovation and development of the industry. To boost returns for investors and protect their interests and rights, the SSE has made great efforts on five aspects in terms of rule making and active guidance by focusing on the market infrastructure construction since this year. First, the exchange enhances the dividend distribution of listed companies and advocates the concept that the cash dividend is the most important part of returns for investors. Second, the exchange perfects the delisting system and curbs the speculation on under-performed shares. Third, the exchange rationalizes the information disclosure of listed companies and enhances their transparency. Fourth, the exchange actively guides rational investment and advocates good stock market culture. Fifth, the exchange improves its services and supports the industry's product innovation. Next year, while keeping on with the above-mentioned five aspects of work, the SSE will endeavor to create a favorable market environment for the transformation of the fund industry and the improvement of returns for investors from the following three points. Firstly, the exchange will promote the construction of the stock, bond, fund and derivatives markets in all respects to provide the industry with high-quality underlying assets. As for the stock market, emphasis will be laid on improving the corporate governance, enhancing the transparency and propelling the construction of the multi-tiered blue chip market. For the bond market, importance will be attached to expanding the market size, boosting the market liquidity and offering more fixed-income products. To develop the derivatives, the key is to study and demonstrate individual stock options, develop the products with quasi fixed income and provide risk management tools for the industry. Secondly, the exchange, besides offering fund companies services for product development, will make concerted efforts to expand the size of Thematic ETFs, Sector ETFs, Style ETFs and Cross-border ETFs, develop various asset-linked ETFs including the ETFs linked with bonds, gold, agri-products and foreign exchange, and also try such new products as Reits. The SSE will manage to build its fund market into a hub for investors to allocate various domestic and overseas assets efficiently and conveniently, so as to achieve the goal of "Products traded on one internationalized exchange's market cover various industries". Thirdly, the exchange will coordinate with fund companies to launch market promotion and services, and expand the channels for sale of funds. The exchange is preparing for the establishment of a LOF platform and a platform for sale and transfer of over-the-counter funds so that investors can achieve on-floor and over-the-counter fund assets allocation in a safe and low-cost approach. At present, a majority of investors in China have a preference toward low-risk products with relatively stable income. In compliance with market demands, we should develop quasi-fixed-income products sharing high dividends of blue chips and having good prospects, in a bid to bring good returns for investors by turning challenges to opportunities. As the saying goes "We can achieve anything as long as we unite as one", I'm firmly convinced that we will usher in a new outlook as long as we make concerted efforts. Source:Shanghai Securities News

Notice of Soliciting Public Opinions on SSE Supporting Business Rules for Delisting System
30 Nov 2012
Notice of Soliciting Public Opinions on SSE Supporting Business Rules for Delisting System(2012-11-30)   All market participants, To perfect the delisting supporting system and safeguard the stable implementation of the new delisting system, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has respectively drafted the supporting business rules for the delisting arrangement period, the delisted share transfer service, and the re-listing, namely, the "SSE Detailed Rules (Draft) for Business in Delisting Arrangement Period" (see Attachment I for details), the "SSE Provisional Regulations (Draft) on Share Transfer on Delisted Share Transfer System" (see Attachment II for details), and the "SSE Measures (Draft) for Re-listing of Delisted Companies" (see Attachment III for details). The SSE hereby solicits public opinions on the drafts of the above-mentioned business rules. Please send your opinions or suggestions on the drafts to the SSE in written form or by e-mail before December 7, 2012. Fax: 021-68811782 E-mail: listing@sse.com.cn Mailing address: SSE Department I of Listed Companies Supervision, 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120 Source:Shanghai Stock Exchange

Q&A on Drafts of Supporting Business Rules for Delisting System (2012-11-30)
30 Nov 2012
  Q&A on Drafts of Supporting Business Rules for Delisting System(2012-11-30)   On November 30, 2012, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) publishes three items of supporting business rules for the delisting system, namely the "Detailed Rules (Draft) for Business in Delisting Arrangement Period" (the Rules for Delisting Arrangement Period), the "Provisional Regulations (Draft) on Share Transfer on Delisted Share Transfer System" (the Regulations on Share Transfer), and the "Measures (Draft) for Re-listing of Delisted Companies" (the Measures for Re-listing), and solicits public opinions on them, with a view to carrying out the delisting supporting systems and pushing forward the reform of the delisting system. In this regard, the SSE takes the interview about the rules. Q: What are the guiding principles for the SSE to release the delisting supporting business rules? A: The three items of business rules on which the SSE solicits public opinions make explicit stipulations for the delisting arrangement period, the delisted share transfer service, and the re-listing system, and make proper institutional arrangements for issues related to delisting of listed companies. When drafting the three items of business rules, the SSE adheres to the principle of making progress while ensuring stability based on the overall goal of keeping on deepening the reform of the securities market and the overall consideration of the interests of all the market participants. On the one hand, the exchange unswervingly goes on with the market-oriented reform, and promotes all the work about the new delisting system in an active and stable way, so as to achieve the expected goal of the reform. On the other hand, the exchange takes historical factors into full consideration and makes reasonable arrangements for the companies with their stock listing suspended before the release of the new delisting system, thus ensuring stable expectations of investors and a smooth transition from the old delisting system to the new one. Q: What's the main purpose of the "Rules for Delisting Arrangement Period"? What are the main contents in it? A: As stipulated in the "Rules for Delisting Arrangement Period", after the shares issued by a listed company are given a decision on listing termination, they shall enter the delisting arrangement period and be traded on the SSE's risk alert board. The delisting arrangement period is designed to set up an exit mechanism for investors before a company's stock listing is terminated, which helps to fully disclose and release relevant risks and prevent market speculation. To this end, the "Rules for Delisting Arrangement Period" makes specific stipulations in terms of trade arrangement, information disclosure, and other aspects. As for the trade arrangement, the delisting arrangement period allows shares to be traded for thirty trading days, excluding the trading days for whole-day trading suspension which are not allowed to exceed five trading days accumulatively. Besides, issues including ticker symbol, daily trading limit, quotation display, and investor suitability management are subject to the "Provisional Regulations on Stock Trading on Risk Alert Board" of the SSE. As regards the information disclosure, if a listed company with the shares issued by it entering the delisting arrangement period, the company and the relevant information disclosure obligor shall still fulfill relevant obligations. According to different time points in the delisting arrangement period, the "Rules for Delisting Arrangement Period" makes clear specific contents of information disclosure for risk alert and requires a company to make special risk alert every time it makes an announcement. Moreover, the "Rules for Delisting Arrangement Period" stipulates that a company shall not plan significant assets reorganization in the delisting arrangement period, in a bid to prevent market speculation. Q: What are the interim arrangements in the "Rules for Delisting Arrangement Period" for companies with their stock listing suspended before the release of the newly revised "Stock Listing Rules"? A: When rationalizing the delisting system, the SSE has made interim arrangements for the companies with their stock listing suspended before the release of the new delisting system in the notice of publishing the newly revised "Stock Listing Rules" by considering their conditions. Based on the same consideration, interim arrangements have also been made in certain parts of the "Rules for Delisting Arrangement Period". Firstly, unless otherwise specified, the shares issued by the companies with their stock listing suspended before the implementation of the newly revised "Stock Listing Rules" shall be traded in the delisting arrangement period after the SSE gives a decision on listing termination. Secondly, if the companies with their stock listing suspended before the implementation of the newly revised "Stock Listing Rules" are still carrying out significant assets reorganizations after the SSE gives decisions on listing termination, they are allowed to choose whether to have their shares traded in the delisting arrangement period and terminate the significant reorganizations in the form of resolutions made at their shareholders' meetings after the day when the SSE makes decisions on listing termination. The above-mentioned arrangements are mainly designed to prevent over-speculation on shares due to the reorganizations in the delisting arrangement period. If their shareholders' meetings approve of the stock trading in the delisting arrangement period and the termination of significant assets reorganizations, the companies can have their shares traded in the delisting arrangement period. If their shareholders' meetings disapprove of the stock trading in the delisting arrangement period and the termination of significant assets reorganizations, the companies can keep on with the significant assets reorganizations, while the shares issued by them will not be traded in the delisting arrangement period and be delisted by the SSE. The shares issued by the companies which fail to hold shareholders' meetings within time limits will not be traded in the delisting arrangement period. These shares will be delisted by the SSE within five trading days after expiration of the time limits. Q: What are the main purpose and the principles to draft the "Regulations on Share Transfer"? A: According to the "Stock Listing Rules", listed companies can choose to have their shares transferred in the SSE delisted share transfer system upon application after termination of their stock listing. For this purpose, the share transfer system of delisted companies is established to provide delisted companies with share transfer, information disclosure, and other services. With a complete market structure, the delisted share transfer system has basic elements just as a general market does, including investor suitability management, transfer service, quotation disclosure, information disclosure, clearing and delivery, transfer behavior supervision, as well as distribution of rights and interests. To alleviate the burdens of delisted companies and bring investors convenience for share transfer, the "Regulations on Share Transfer" abides by the economical and convenience principles in mechanism design. On the delisted share transfer system, no agent brokers are set up and all the brokers can accept clients' entrustment. To reduce the cost of delisted companies in information disclosure, they can disclose information in an electronic way instead of publishing announcements in newspapers. To prevent market speculation, the "Regulations on Share Transfer" gives strict measures for restrictions on share transfer and measures for investor suitability management. According to the measures for restrictions on share transfer, only one call auction and no consecutive auction is available every day; transfer services are offered for not more than three times every week. According to the measures for investor suitability management, individual investors are required to have the experience in stock investment for over three years, with the total assets of not less than RMB0.5 million in securities and fund accounts, while brokers are required to establish investor qualification review systems, conduct front control on investors, and work out lists of qualified investors. Q: What are main contents of the "Regulations on Share Transfer"? A: In accordance with the market organizational structure of the delisted share transfer system, the "Regulations on Share Transfer" falls into nine chapters, namely general provisions, transfer service, information disclosure, stock trading suspension, resumption and termination for transfer, investor suitability management, transfer behavior supervision, abnormal condition handling, other issues and appendix. As for the scope of application, the delisted share transfer system is only applicable to delisted companies. Delisted companies can transfer their floating shares without sales limit, which have been listed and traded on the SSE before the listing termination, and other shares issued according to law in the transfer system. The rules for transfer include the following points. Firstly, only one call auction and no consecutive auction is available every day. Secondly, transfer services are offered for not more than three times every week. Thirdly, the trading limit is 5%. Fourthly, only limit orders are allowed. Concerning the display of transfer information, the information about the share transfer of delisted companies is on display separately. As regards the information disclosure, delisted companies shall disclose such information as periodic reports and announcements on significant events on their websites, the platforms designated by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) for information disclosure of unlisted companies, and the SSE official website. Furthermore, the SSE does not take responsibility for the truth of the contents in documents for information disclosure. The SSE has the rights to suspend the transfer of the shares issued by the companies which violate the "Agreement on Share Transfer Services" and commit major illegal behaviors. The exchange also has the rights to terminate the transfer of the shares issued by the companies which are re-listed and merged, as well as are disbanded and go bankrupt according to laws. Besides, the companies which fail to timely fulfill the obligation of information disclosure as required shall apply for share transfer suspension. As for the investor suitability management, investors are required to have rich investment experience and corresponding risk tolerance. In terms of members' responsibilities, members are required to undertake main responsibilities for investor management and work out lists of qualified investors. As regards the abnormal transfers, the SSE has the rights to take regulatory or disciplinary measures as appropriate. Moreover, the exchange has the rights to take temporary suspension of transfer services and other measures when abnormal situations occur. Q: Will all the delisted companies be added to the share transfer system of delisted companies? A: According to the requirements in the "Stock Listing Rules" released by the SSE, after listing termination of the stocks issued by a listed company, the company can choose places for share transfer, including national over-the-counter markets, other regional over-the-counter markets meeting the relevant requirements, as well as the share transfer system of delisted companies provided by the SSE. If a delisted company chooses to be added to the SSE's share transfer system for delisted companies and signs the "Agreement on Services of Share Transfer" with the SSE according to the "Regulations on Share Transfer", the shares issued by it will then be listed for transfer in the share transfer system of delisted companies. If a delisted company chooses to apply for entering the national over-the-counter markets or any of the regional over-the-counter markets meeting the relevant requirements, the shares issued by it will be listed for transfer on the corresponding over-the-counter markets of its own choice. Q: What is the thought behind the draft of the "Measures for Re-listing"? A: According to the new "Stock Listing Rules" of the SSE, after the shares issued by a SSE-listed company are delisted, the company can apply to the SSE for re-listing if it meets required conditions. The re-listing system enables the delisted companies meeting relevant conditions to return to the main board market for stock trading, thus building a market system conducive to listing, delisting and re-listing among the markets at different levels. The "Measures for Re-listing" released this time is the very embodiment of the above purpose. Since the "Stock Listing Rules" has specified the application conditions for re-listing, the "Measures for Re-listing" has not added any other conditions. With regard to the review procedures, the "Measures for Re-listing", by referring to the review procedures for listing resumption, has stipulated the major processes such as the applications of listed companies, the application acceptance of the SSE, the review of the SSE Listing Committees, and the decision-making of the exchange, as well as the time limits for all the processes. The "Measures for Re-listing" insists upon information disclosure as its core by introducing the pre-disclosure system, which requires the applicants to fully disclose the general information of the companies in the application document for re-listing and other documents. Moreover, the "Measures for Re-listing" strengthens the role of intermediaries in assisting the companies in applying for re-listing, makes specific requirements to the professional opinions of intermediaries, as well as stipulates the major contents of sponsor reports, sponsoring work manuscripts, and legal opinion letters. Q: What is the main content of the "Measures for Re-listing"? A: The "Measures for Re-listing" is composed of 6 chapters including general provisions, applying conditions and acceptance procedure, examination and decision-making, re-listing arrangement, information disclosure, and appendix. The chapters in the "Measures for Re-listing" rank according to the sequence of the different stages for re-listing. A separate chapter is arranged for information disclosure. As for the scope of application, a delisted company could apply for re-listing if it meets required conditions. In consideration of historic factors, the companies with their stock listing terminated by the SSE before the implementation of the "Measures for Re-listing" could apply for re-listing if they meet required conditions. As regards the applying conditions and acceptance procedure, the delisted companies which meet the applying conditions as required in the "Stock Listing Rules" could apply for re-listing after 12 months since the day when the shares issued by them enter the SSE delisted share transfer system or other over-the-counter market for transfer. If the applicants do not coordinate with relevant delisting work, the SSE will not accept the applications for re-listing submitted by them within 36 months. As for the examination and decision-making procedures, the SSE Listing Committee will make independent and professional judgment and work out review opinions by examining and discussing the applications for re-listing submitted by listed companies. Afterwards, the SSE will decide whether to approve of the applications for re-listing according to the voting result and review opinions given by the SSE Listing Committee or not. As for the arrangement for re-listing, after the companies' applications for re-listing are approved, they should sign agreements on re-listing with the SSE within 3 months, and handle re-confirmation, registration, and custody of shares, as well as other procedures. Besides, sales limits will be imposed on the shares issued by these companies according to different natures and sources of these shares. As for the information disclosure, the pre-disclosure is introduced. The companies should disclose their applications for re-listing (application drafts), re-listing sponsor letters, and legal opinion letters on the SSE official website, as well as release in time the significant issues occurring during application periods and the progresses in the applications after they submit the applications for re-listing. Q: What are the SSE's follow-up arrangements after the release of the drafts of the delisting supporting business rules? A: After soliciting opinions on the 3 items of business rules released this time, the SSE will sum up in time and rationally absorb the opinions from market participants, and formulate a formal release. After going through necessary examination and approval procedures, the SSE will release the official release above and the business rules for the Risk Alert Board previously amended and fixed in light of collected opinions. After relevant business rules are released, the SSE will build a complete and smooth delisting system with the processes ranging from risk alert, listing suspension, listing resumption, listing termination, delisting arrangement, and delisting share transfer to re-listing. The confirmation of the market-oriented system will definitely contribute to the sound growth of the SSE blue chip market, and the protection of investors' rights and interests. Next, the SSE, according to the unified deployment of the CSRC, will properly make the interim arrangements for the companies with their stock listing suspended before the release of the new delisting system to ensure a stable and orderly market, in addition to vigorously carrying out all the tasks of all the delisting supporting systems for successful implementation of the new delisting system. Source:Shanghai Stock Exchange

Gui Minjie: Building a Better Blue Chip Market to Serve the Real Economy
21 Nov 2012
Gui Minjie: Building a Better Blue Chip Market to Serve the Real Economy (2012-11-21)   SSE's Study and Implementation of Essence of Report to the 18th CPC National Congress On the morning of November 20, Gui Minjie, Deputy to the 18th CPC National Congress (the Congress for short), Secretary of the CPC Committee of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and SSE Governor, presided over an outreach meeting for the leading group of the SSE CPC Committee, at which Gui conveyed the essence of the report to the Congress (the Report for short), and put forward specific requirements for implementing the essence of the Report and promoting all the work of the exchange. Apart from a general review of the Party Congress, Gui Minjie conveyed Hu Jintao's report, the essence of the work report of the 17th CPC Central Commission for Discipline Inspection and the revision of the CPC Constitution. According to Gui, the Congress is a meeting held in the critical period of building a moderately prosperous society and deepening reform and opening up in all respects, which features clear-cut stands, profound thoughts, and truth-seeking and pioneering spirits. It is of great significance to guide the overall situation of social and economic progress. To study and implement the essence of the Report, we should keep in mind four points, namely the theme of holding high the great banner of socialism with Chinese characteristics, the basis of the primary stage of socialism, the overall approach of the promotion of economic, political, cultural, social and ecological progress, and the mission of achieving socialist modernization and great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. Besides, we should bear in mind the basic requirements of "Eight Principles" and always adhere to the socialist core value system of "Three Initiatives". Gui pointed out that the Congress defined the goal of promoting the macroeconomic stability and supporting development of the real economy for the modern financial system, which gave a strategic direction for the construction of the SSE's multi-tiered blue chip market. Following the requirements of the Congress, the SSE will renew its efforts to improve the market functions and enhance the capability of serving the real economy. First of all, to deepen the reform of the financial system, the exchange will cooperate with regulatory authorities in deregulation and simplification of procedures for approval, and give full play to its role of a market organizer. Besides, to improve the financial regulation, the exchange will enhance the transparency of regulation, attach importance to classified supervision of listed companies and direct channels for information disclosure, and protect rights and interests of investors. Moreover, to advance the financial innovation, the SSE will give guidance and support for industry innovation, accelerate the development of the bond market, and develop more trading patterns and instruments. Furthermore, to safeguard the financial stability, the SSE will intensify risk monitoring, and prevent and eliminate systematic risks of the capital market. In addition, according to the requirements for speeding up the development of the multi-tiered capital market, the SSE will strengthen the construction of the multi-tiered blue chip market, and provide services for enterprises with varied scales and development levels in different industries through the construction of over-the-counter market and the development of SME private placement bonds. At the meeting, based on the Report, Gui talked about his views about the Congress while Huang Hongyuan, Deputy Secretary of the SSE CPC Committee and SSE President, as well as other members of the SSE CPC Committee and the President's Office discussed about the future development of the capital market, the difficult and important tasks in the current work and the future development direction. They unanimously concluded five points for the SSE to implement the essence of the Report in the work. Firstly, the SSE should improve its political literacy, and enhance its vision as well as senses of mission and responsibility. The exchange undertakes the responsibilities of enforcing laws and regulations, maintaining market orders, eliminating rule-breaking behaviors, and safeguarding rights and interests of investors. In line with the exchange's functions and positioning, the SSE CPC Committee, SSE cadres and staff should have good political literacy, combine the work with national strategy and destiny, and show the spirits of responsibility, vision, outlook and courage. Secondly, the SSE should have a sense of urgency and a strong ambition. The exchange has much to do to promote the achievement of the goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects put forward in the Congress. Its services for the real economy are far from enough to meet the demand. Therefore, the SSE should make more effort with the sense of urgency, great courage and high spirits on the basis of higher requirements and standards to make the market more attractive and influential. Thirdly, the SSE should free the mind, dare to practice, and take initiatives in the work. Over more than two decades, the capital market has made remarkable achievements through exploration and innovation in the reforms, with its size topping the global list, its system improved, its functions strengthened, its order rationalized, and its services more open to the outside world. The capital market has entered a new stage of development, which could provide an environment for deregulation, innovation, and expansion. The exchange will further change the inertial thinking, get rid of the path dependence, simplify the procedures, and enhance the efficiency. What's more, the exchange will not only free the mind, encourage creativity, and have the courage to think and act, but also improve the initiative, consciousness and vision in innovation. Fourthly, the SSE should apply creativity and innovation to the work. Under the leadership of the CPC Central Committee, the State Council and the CPC Committee of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, by implementing the essence of the Report, determining confidence, shouldering responsibilities, and seizing opportunities, the exchange will promote the coordinated development of the stock market, the bond market, the fund market, and the derivatives market with the focus on the multi-tiered blue chip market, and creatively improve its services based on bigger goals and higher requirements. Fifthly, the SSE should enhance its capability of serving the real economy and improve its services. The exchange will take it as its own duty to serve various market participants and promote the markets' development, and improve its overall services in a market-participant-oriented, market-oriented and international way by changing its thinking, broadening its horizon, innovating in service patterns, enriching service modes, and intensifying service consciousness. Finally, Gui stressed that it was a primary political task for the SSE to study and implement the essence of the Report in the short and long run. The exchange's Party members and staff should study and understand the essence, rich contents and basic requirements of the Congress, and strengthen the determination and consciousness of implementing the essence of the Report. Besides, they should unify thoughts and actions based on the essence of the Report, and conduct an activity for the concentrated education on socialism with Chinese characteristics, the Scientific Outlook on Development, the goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects, the Party Constitution and the Party spirit through study on the Report. Moreover, they should combine what they learn from the Report with their work, endeavor to transform the essence of the Report into effective work measures, and go all out to push forward the scientific development of the exchange-based markets, thus making more contributions to the building of a moderately prosperous society in all respects. Source:Shanghai Securities News

Multi-tiered Blue Chip Market Built to Serve Real Economy
17 Nov 2012
Multi-tiered Blue Chip Market Built to Serve Real Economy(2012-11-17)   SSE's Study on the Report to the 18th CPC National Congress On the eve of the 18th CPC National Congress (the Party Congress for short), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held a Party committee meeting for well-organized preparations and arrangements for study and implementation of the Report to the Party Congress (the Report for short). Since the opening of the Party Congress, the SSE has organized cadres and masses to watch the live broadcast about the Party Congress and relevant news in accordance with the unified deployment of the CPC SSE Committee. The members of the CPC SSE Committee and the President's Office attended the special meeting held by the CPC Committee of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) for study of the Report while all the SSE Party branches and the departments held symposia, discussions and other activities for study and implementation of the Report. Around the Party Congress, the SSE organized experts and scholars from the companies in securities, fund and insurance sectors to hold a symposium in honor of the Party Congress for discussion on the development of the capital market. Besides, the SSE published three research reports in a row on the historic opportunities brought by the development of China's economy and capital market with the opening of the historic meeting, which aroused great attention and active response from the market. Apart from the importance of well studying and understanding the Report, the SSE was fully aware of the greater importance to ponder over what opportunities, expectations and directions implied in the important strategic arrangements and grand goals of the Report for the construction of the multi-tiered blue chip market when carrying out the requirements in the Report, combining the requirements in the Report with the actual conditions in the construction of the multi-tiered blue chip market, studying the Report in a thinking and problem-solving way, and unifying thoughts and actions in the construction of the multi-tiered blue chip market. I. Important strategic arrangements in the Report bring unprecedented opportunities for the construction of the multi-tiered blue chip market. 1. The "promotion of economic, political, cultural, social and ecological progress" will bring great opportunities for the construction of the multi-tiered blue chip market. The Report says that our overall approach for building socialism with Chinese characteristics is to promote economic, political, cultural, social and ecological progress. With the full implementation of the overall approach, a large number of listed companies taking leading positions in their sectors and featuring explosive growth in business and outstanding financial performances will come into being in the process of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects. This will not only provide continuous rich rewards for investors, but also bring huge opportunities for the development of the Chinese capital market including the SSE's multi-tiered blue chip market. 2. The path of "new industrialization, informatization, urbanization and agricultural modernization" will invigorate the multi-tiered blue chip market. The Report points out that we will stick to the path of new industrialization, informatization, urbanization, and agricultural modernization. On one hand, the multi-tiered blue chip market is conducive to pushing forward new industrialization and informatization through merger, acquisition and reorganization, investing and financing as well as resource allocation, advancing the progress of urbanization by raising funds for infrastructure construction through issuance of corporate bonds and private placement bonds as well as asset securitization, and speeding up agricultural modernization by propelling the modern agricultural enterprises for listing and financing together with merger, acquisition and reorganization and the agricultural production. On the other hand, new industrialization, informatization, urbanization, and agricultural modernization will constantly add vitality to the construction of the multi-tiered blue chip market. 3. The strategic economic restructuring will help to expand the multi-tiered blue chip market. The Report stresses that we will promote the strategic economic restructuring and the sound development of strategic emerging industries and advanced manufacturing industries, accelerate the transformation and upgrading of traditional industries, boost the development and expansion of the service industry especially the modern service industry, and support the growth of micro and small enterprises especially those in technology sectors. In this respect, the multi-tiered blue chip market has its unique advantages, which can promote the clustering of various superior resources in hi-tech industries, emerging competitive industries, as well as innovative and creative industries. Meanwhile, the strategic economic restructuring and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises as well as innovative enterprises can effectively expand the development space of the multi-tiered blue chip market. 4. The goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects will be taken as an obligation in the construction of the multi-tiered blue chip market. The Report puts forward that we should double its 2010 GDP and per capital income for both urban and rural residents by 2020 to build a moderately prosperous society in all respects. It is predictable that with a sharp rise in per capital income, the huge demands of the masses for wealth management will keep on providing incessant long-term funds for the capital market. To provide a full-function and efficient wealth management platform is an obligation in the construction of the multi-tiered blue chip market and also an important opportunity of the SSE for the market development. II. The grand goal in the Report poses high expectations for the SSE in the construction of the multi-tiered blue chip market. 1. To seize the important period of strategic opportunities The Report concludes from the overall international and domestic situations that China remains in an important period of strategic opportunities for its development, in which we must lose no time in deepening reforms in key sectors with greater political courage and vision. Besides, the Report makes arrangements for deepening the reform of the economic and financial systems, and specifies requirements for improving financial regulation, promoting financial innovation, and maintaining financial stability, which gives a direction for the development of the capital market and strengthens the SSE's confidence in the construction of the multi-tiered blue chip market. 2. To lay emphasis on balanced, coordinated and sustainable development The Report says that on the basis of making China's development much more balanced, coordinated and sustainable, we should endeavor to attain the goal of completing the building of a moderately prosperous society in all respects by 2020. The Report stresses that all the Party members should go all out in the building of a moderately prosperous society in all respects as it is extremely difficult to complete the task on schedule. The SSE's Party members and staff, always uniting as one and shouldering heavy responsibilities, will probe into the essence, rich contents and basic requirements of the Report, and strengthen the consciousness and determination for implementation of the requirements in the Report. 3. To improve services for the real economy To implement the requirements in the Report, the SSE will make greater effort to promote the conversion of savings into investments, the strategic economic restructuring and industrial upgrading as well as the technological innovation. Moreover, the SSE will open more channels for the improvement of the people's well-being, play a distinctive role in the building of a cultural power, assume more responsibilities for safeguarding the country's economic and financial security, and make major contributions to the building of Shanghai into an international financial center. "A good opportunity may be a catalyst for a promising future." Based on the services for the real economy, the SSE will harvest a brighter and more meaningful future in its market development. III. The essential requirements and the Scientific Outlook on Development in the Report points out a strategic direction for the future development of the SSE. The Report stresses that the Scientific Outlook on Development is the latest achievement in the system of theories of socialism with Chinese characteristics and the powerful theoretical guidance for the Party and the country in the work. In line with the requirements in the Report, when probing into the essence and connotation of the Scientific Outlook on Development and carrying out the theory in the reform and development of the capital market in a self-conscious and all-round way, the SSE will promote the coordinated development of the stock market, the bond market, the fund market and the derivatives market by centering on the construction of the multi-tiered blue chip market. Firstly, the SSE will unswervingly promote the construction of the multi-tiered blue chip market. As the key battleground of the Chinese capital market as well as the basis and the center of the Chinese multi-tiered capital market, the SSE's multi-tiered blue chip market has grown into an important platform of the capital market to propel reform and development of national economy as well as social harmony and progress. At present, 33 companies among 42 Chinese companies included in Fortune Global 500 have gone public on the SSE. Following the essential requirements of the Scientific Outlook on Development, the exchange will continuously adhere to the positioning of the multi-tiered blue chip market, improve listed companies' governance, transparency and quality, and enhance the value of the blue chip market. Secondly, the SSE will boost the development of the bond market. The exchange will give continuous support for elevating the financing proportion of corporate bonds, enterprise bonds and other enterprise credit bonds, strive to make innovation in pre-issuance of treasury bonds, asset securitization and other products, enrich the products traded on the exchanged-based bond market, and propel the interflow between on-floor and over-the-counter markets. Thirdly, the SSE will renew its efforts to develop the fund market and support the business innovation of fund companies. The exchange will develop ETF and other more domestic and overseas fund products, and enhance the capability of global product configuration. Furthermore, the exchange will support fund management companies for the product development and business innovation as well as the transition into modern wealth management organizations. Fourthly, the SSE will develop the derivatives market in a stable way. According to the principle of high standards and strict supervision, the exchange will study and develop the derivatives based on securities spots, thus providing investors with diversified investment choices and risk management instruments. It is the foremost task and a long-term job for the SSE to study and implement the requirements in the Report. As the main board market of the Chinese capital market, the SSE will always take the requirements in the Report as the guidance for work, further give play to its basic and supportive role in the sound and sustained development of the capital market, enhance its major influence in the national economic growth and improve international competiveness of the capital market. In addition, the SSE will not only take the study and implementation of the requirements in the Report as an important opportunity to intensify the cohesive force of the Party organizations, strengthen the team building, improve the work quality of all the departments, and demonstrate their work style, but also make the staff bear in mind the essence, key standpoint, basic requirements and fundamental methods of the Scientific Outlook on Development, with an aim of making sure the exchange reach a higher stage of development and have a new look. Source:Shanghai Securities News

SSE Releases "Notice of Strengthening Regulation on Abnormal Stock Trading Related to Significant Assets Reorganization of Listed Companies"
16 Nov 2012
SSE Releases "Notice of Strengthening Regulation on Abnormal Stock Trading Related to Significant Assets Reorganization of Listed Companies" (2012-11-16)   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently released the "Notice of Strengthening Regulation on Abnormal Stock Trading Related to Significant Assets Reorganization of Listed Companies" (the Notice), which will take effect on December 17, 2012. According to sources, the Notice was released on the day when the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) published the "Provisional Rules on Strengthening Regulation on Abnormal Stock Trading Related to Significant Assets Reorganization of Listed Companies" (the Rules) which was designed to toughen the regulation on abnormal stock trading related to significant assets reorganization, prevent and combat insider trading, and safeguard fair order in the capital market. An SSE official said that focusing on the regulation on abnormal stock trading of listed companies before their applications for administrative licensing for significant assets reorganization, the Notice was released with the very aim of promoting the implementation of the Rules and carrying out the requirements in the Rules. The Notice released by the SSE mainly includes the stipulations as follows. Firstly, the Notice specifies the SSE's procedures for examination on abnormal stock trading involved in significant assets reorganization to follow the principle that a reorganization-involved listed company will be examined if its stock trading is abnormal, and suspended if it is put on file for investigation, resumed if its suspicious behavior is ruled out, and terminated if it breaks the rule. According to the Notice, if a listed company's stock trading is suspended due to significant assets reorganization, the exchange will start the procedures for examination on the secondary market and urge the listed company to provide the list of insiders of inside information and the memorandum of trading progress. Besides, the exchange will report suspected issues or clues involving insider trading to the inspection bureaus of the CSRC through direct channels and take on continuous regulation on stock trading in the secondary market in all the follow-up periods.  Secondly, the Notice highlights the obligation of reorganization-involved companies for information disclosure. If a listed company is put on file for investigation by the CSRC or judicial authorities for being suspected of insider trading in the reorganization, it shall timely disclose the case filing and the risk alert on suspension or possible termination of the reorganization as well as the resumption or termination of the follow-up reorganization progress. During the suspension of the reorganization, the listed company decides for itself whether to terminate the reorganization or not. Moreover, after the listed company applies for administrative licensing for significant assets reorganization to the CSRC, it shall timely make announcements and risk alerts if the CSRC adopts the measures of refusal on acceptance, resumption of procedures for acceptance, suspension of examination, resumption of examination, and termination of examination for its application for administrative licensing. Thirdly, the Notice makes clear the arrangements for suspension and resumption of stock trading of reorganization-involved companies. After a listed company enters the procedures for stock trading suspension for significant assets reorganization, its stock trading shall be suspended for not more than 30 days in principle and accumulatively not more than 3 months in principle if it is necessary to postpone the stock trading resumption. Furthermore, if a listed company fails to disclose the scheme or draft of significant assets reorganization on schedule after suspension of its stock trading, it shall promise not to plan and prepare for significant assets reorganization within at least 3 months from the day of stock trading resumption. In addition, to promote the prudent policy-making of listed companies and relevant parties involved in the reorganization and prevent the abuse of the system for postponement of stock trading resumption, the listed company which fails to disclose the scheme or draft for significant assets reorganization after postponement of its stock trading resumption shall promise not to plan and prepare for significant assets reorganization within at least 6 months from the announcement day. It is learnt that the currently released version of the Notice takes shape after the SSE revises and improves the draft version based on the reasonable opinions and suggestions taken from the market participants. Source:Shanghai Stock Exchange

Adjustment List for SSE Wealth Mid-Small Index
15 Nov 2012
Adjustment List for SSE Wealth Mid-Small Index The following adjustments will be effective on the first trading day of December, 2012.   Adjustment List for SSE Wealth Mid-Small Index: Deletion List Addition List Stock Code Stock Name Stock Code Stock Name 600156 Hunan Huasheng 600684 Pearl River Industrial Development 600236 Guiguan Electric Power 600565 Chongqing Dima Industry 600262 Inner Mongolia North Hauler Joint 600716 Phoenix Property Investment 600277 Inner Mongolia Yili Energy 600692 Shanghai Ya Tong 600302 Typical Industries 600211 Tibet Rhodiola Pharmaceutical 600346 Dalian Rubber & Plastics Machinery 600389 Jiangshan Agrochemical&Chemicals 600368 Wuzhou Communications 600526 Feida Enviromental Science & Technology 600398 Canal Scientific and Technological 600533 Nanjing Chixia Development 600485 Beijing Zhongchuang Telecom Test 600077 Sundy Land Investment 600527 Jiangnan High Polymer Fiber 600836 Shanghai Jielong Industry Group 600626 Shanghai Shenda 600990 Anhui Sun-Create Electronics 600682 Nanjing Xinjiekou Department Store 600135 Luckyfilm 600734 Fujian Start Group 600493 Fynex Textile Science & Technology 600821 Tianjin Quanyechang 600230 Cangzhou Dahua 600824 Shanghai Yimin Commercial Group 601700 Fengfan Power Equipment 600773 Tibet Urban Development and Investment 600130 Ningbo Bird 600881 Jilin Yatai 600056 China Meheco 600372 China Avic Avionics Equipment 600790 Light&Textile Industrial City Group 600160 Zhejiang Juhua 600763 Topchoice Medical Investment 600063 Wanwei Updated High-Tech Material Industry 600962 SDIC Zhonglu Fruit Juice 600330 TDG Holding 601058 Sailun 600496 Changjiang & Jinggong Steel Building 600965 Fortune Ng Fung Food 600366 Ningbo Yunsheng 600131 Minjiang Hydropower 601101 Haohua Energy Resource 600978 Yihua Timber Industry 600367 Redstar Developing 600070 Zhejiang Furun 600810 Shen Ma Industry 600321 Guodong Construction 600117 Xining Special Steel 600420 Shyndec Pharmaceutical 600152 Veken Elite Group 600645 Zhongyuan Union Stem Cell Bioengineering 600827 Shanghai Friendship Group 600640 Besttone Holding 600232 Zhejiang Golden Eagle 600192 Lanzhou Greatwall Electrical Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. Nov. 15 , 2012  

Outlook for Chinese Capital Market in New Historical Period
14 Nov 2012
By SSE Capital Market Institute Editor's note: In the 18th National Congress of the Communist Party of China (CPC), a series of important strategic arrangements have been made for the economic and social development and reform in China, which brings rare new opportunities to the development of the Chinese capital market. "One may achieve nothing if he misses opportunities." Therefore, it is particularly important for the capital market to identify and seize opportunities based on determined confidence. The latest research report published by the Capital Market Institute of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) helps us to define the current development stage of the Chinese capital market, seize the development opportunities for some time to come, and make preparations for the future. With reform and innovation carried out, the Chinese capital market has made remarkable achievements in recent years. The capital market has developed in a more open, law-based, market-oriented and internationalized way, whose gap with mature markets has been narrowed and whose capability of serving the real economy has been improved significantly. The successful opening of the 18th CPC National Congress indicates that China's economy will make another leap, bringing rare new opportunities to the development of the Chinese capital market. In other words, China's capital market will have a promising future. I. Achievements in Chinese Capital Market This Decade Since the founding of the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) in 1990, especially in the recent ten years in the twenty-first century, the Chinese capital market has made great strides and remarkable achievements by feeling its way along and constantly blazing new trails in the reform. Firstly, the size of the Chinese capital market has ranked top in the world. By the end of 2002, there were only 1,223 companies listed on the SSE and the SZSE, with the market capitalization less than RMB3.8 trillion. After ten years' development, up to November 12, 2012, the number of companies listed on the two exchanges has reached 2,494, doubling compared with that by the end of 2002 while the market capitalization has reached RMB21.8 trillion, increasing by nearly five times compared with that by the end of 2002. In the global market capitalization ranking list of the World Federation of Exchanges, the capital market in China's mainland rises to the third place from the thirteenth in 2002, second to the USA and Japan, which is a match with the size of the real economy in the second place. Secondly, the multi-tiered capital market system has been improved. Through unremitting efforts for years, a multi-tiered capital market system mainly composed of the Main Board, the SME board, the Growth Enterprise Board and the agency share transfer system has been basically developed in China, which becomes a driving force for the sustained and rapid development of the real economy. As of November 12, 2012, there are 1,438, 701 and 355 companies listed on the Main Board, the SME board and the Growth Enterprise Board of the SSE and the SZSE respectively while there are nearly a thousand companies listed on regional equity transfer exchanges as well as equity exchanges.  Thirdly, the capability of the capital market in serving the national economy has been enhanced. Over the decade, the capital market has made significant contributions to the establishment of the modern enterprise system and the development of the real economy, promoted the economic restructuring and the shift in development pattern, and accelerated the concentration of social resources in superior enterprises. A number of state-owned and private enterprises have improved their own competitiveness and adjusted industrial structure through restructuring and listing as well as merger, acquisition and reorganization, and became industry leaders renowned at home and abroad. As a result, their influences have grown increasingly in the national economy. Up to November 12, 2012, the companies listed on the SSE and the SZSE have accumulatively raised the funds of RMB4.88 trillion. From 2006 to 2011, a total of 143 listed companies carried out the significant assets reorganization for industry consolidation, with the transaction amount of RMB757 billion. Fourthly, the capital market has become more and more international. From 2002, the internationalization of the capital market has been advanced and many positive results have been achieved. As for the internationalization of financing, a total of 172 companies (excluding delisting companies) have issued H shares and raised funds of US$178.7 billion overseas. Concerning the internationalization of investment, the total investment amount of QFIIs has reached about US$80 billion while the net product value of QDIIs has reached about RMB57.9 billion. With regard to the internationalization of business organizations, a total of 13 joint-ventured securities companies and 41 joint-ventured fund companies have been set up. To sum up, this decade China's capital market has made much progress in many aspects, with its mechanism and environment improved and its gap with mature markets narrowed constantly. II. Development Opportunities of Chinese Capital Market in the Next Decade Recently, the specific strategic arrangements have been put forward for China' economic development as well as reform and opening-up in the report to the 18th CPC National Congress. In the next decade, China will stick to the path of new industrialization, informatization, urbanization and agricultural modernization, promote the further integration of informatization and industrialization, the interaction between industrialization and urbanization, the coordination of urbanization with agricultural modernization, and advance the synchronous development of industrialization, informatization, urbanization and agricultural modernization, rationalize the socialist market economy system, accelerate the transition in the economic development pattern, and raise the vitality and competitiveness of economic development to a new level. As an impetus for propelling China's economy to make a new leap, these strategic arrangements will open a new era for the development of the capital market and bring rare new opportunities for the coordinated development of the real economy and the capital market. Firstly, strategic adjustment of the economic structure will push forward the development of the capital market as a lasting driving force. The report to the 18th CPC National Congress says that China will take it as a major task to advance the strategic economic restructuring for accelerating the transition in the economic development pattern. On the basis of the development of the real economy, the country will carry out policies and measures more in favor of the development of the real economy, improve demand-oriented services, propel the sound development of strategic emerging industries and advanced manufacturing industries, accelerate the transition and upgrading of traditional industries, boost the expansion of the service sector especially the modern service sector, and rationalize the construction of infrastructure and basic industries. The capital market will have a promising prospect amid the strategic adjustment of the economic structure and the transition in the economic development pattern. As an important platform for optimization of resource allocation, the capital market plays an active role in promoting the transition in the economic development pattern, especially in propelling the economic restructuring and the development of emerging industries. In the capital market, companies' investment value dominates the direction of capital flows. The price signals in the capital market not only contribute to raising lots of funds to open channels for incremental capital but also help to guide the clustering of all production factors and economic resources in the core sectors and the sectors with policy support to realize the integration of the advantages in systems, talents and policies and the economic resources in the capital clustering sectors, achieve the resource synergy effects, expand the space for economic restructuring, promote the development of enterprises in a regional and international way and boost the orderly transfer of industries. All this will advance the structural adjustment and industrial upgrading, the optimized allocation of resources and the sustainable development of the national economy. Secondly, urbanization, new industrialization and agricultural modernization will bring vitality to the development of the capital market. Urbanization calls for large-scale infrastructure construction. The capital market can give support to the qualified enterprises engaged in infrastructure, public services, energy and other sectors for equity financing and also fund raising through bond issuance, exclusive projects and asset securitization. Industrialization, especially new industrialization in the information age, demands the continual introduction to new technologies and facilities as well as the promotion of technical innovation of traditional industries and merger and reorganization of superior enterprises. This change requires the better use of the capital market, the further promotion of merger, acquisition and reorganization, investing and financing and optimized allocation of resources, and the improvement of total factor productivity and industrial concentration ratio to offer industrialization inexhaustible driving forces. The report to the 18th CPC National Congress says that China will take it as a major task to advance the strategic economic restructuring for accelerating the transition in the economic development pattern. On the basis of the development of the real economy, the country will carry out policies and measures more in favor of the development of the real economy, improve demand-oriented services, propel the sound development of strategic emerging industries and advanced manufacturing industries, accelerate the transition and upgrading of traditional industries, boost the expansion of the service sector especially the modern service sector, and rationalize the construction of infrastructure and basic industries. The capital market will have a promising prospect amid the strategic adjustment of the economic structure and the transition in the economic development pattern. As an important platform for optimization of resource allocation, the capital market plays an active role in promoting the transition in the economic development pattern, especially in propelling the economic restructuring and the development of emerging industries. In the capital market, companies' investment value dominates the direction of capital flows. The price signals in the capital market not only contribute to raising lots of funds to open channels for incremental capital but also help to guide the clustering of all production factors and economic resources in the core sectors and the sectors with policy support to realize the integration of the advantages in systems, talents and policies and the economic resources in the capital clustering sectors, achieve the resource synergy effects, expand the space for economic restructuring, promote the development of enterprises in a regional and international way and boost the orderly transfer of industries. All this will advance the structural adjustment and industrial upgrading, the optimized allocation of resources and the sustainable development of the national economy. Secondly, urbanization, new industrialization and agricultural modernization will bring vitality to the development of the capital market. Urbanization calls for large-scale infrastructure construction. The capital market can give support to the qualified enterprises engaged in infrastructure, public services, energy and other sectors for equity financing and also fund raising through bond issuance, exclusive projects and asset securitization. Industrialization, especially new industrialization in the information age, demands the continual introduction to new technologies and facilities as well as the promotion of technical innovation of traditional industries and merger and reorganization of superior enterprises. This change requires the better use of the capital market, the further promotion of merger, acquisition and reorganization, investing and financing and optimized allocation of resources, and the improvement of total factor productivity and industrial concentration ratio to offer industrialization inexhaustible driving forces. Modern agricultural production includes storage, transportation, processing and other procedures for products. Modern agriculture asks for the support of modern capital market. At present, China's agriculture is still highly decentralized, in urgent need of qualified modern agricultural enterprises to propel the agricultural production through listing and financing, merger, acquisition and reorganization as well as reinforced rationalization and improved competitiveness. Thirdly, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and innovative ones will expand the room for further growth of the capital market. At present, small and medium-sized enterprises, accounting for 99% of all the Chinese enterprises, are new forces for the national economy, which contribute 50% of the revenue, create 60% of GDP, finish 70% of the innovations, and offer 80% of jobs in cities and towns. However, small and medium-sized enterprises, especially micro and small enterprises, in the country often find it difficult to get financing and this problem has been unresolved for long time. Besides, these enterprises are short of initial capital or long-term debt financing and are featured with uncertainty and light asset. All this determines their failing to get full support from banks for credit funds. Therefore, a multi-tiered capital market is needed to provide micro, small and medium-sized enterprises with direct financial services through various ways. Although it is the largest industrial country in the world, China has poor abilities in innovation and creation. Most of the enterprises in the country are engaged in the businesses at the lower value-added part of the industrial chain and independent innovative enterprises are rare. Therefore, the strategy of development driven by innovation will be carried out to enhance the abilities of original innovation, integrated innovation and re-innovation after absorption and assimilation of imported technologies. As for the financial services for innovation, the capital market has much to do by giving full play to its advantages. The mechanism of risk and benefit sharing offered in the capital market can boost the clustering of various resources in high-tech industries, accelerate the transformation of technological achievements to practical productive forces, enhance the national innovative abilities, as well as promote the construction and improvement of the state innovation system and the knowledge innovation system. Fourthly, the masses' great desire for wealth management will contribute to providing steady long-term funds for the capital market. It is put forward in the report at the 18th CPC National Congress that the GDP and per capita income of urban and rural residents in 2020 will double compared with those in 2010, on the basis of the obvious strengthened balance, harmony, and sustainability of the development. According to the above blueprint, the per capita disposable income of urban and rural residents in 2020 will reach between RMB40,000 and RMB45,000 in light of that (about RMB20,000) in 2010; the per capita net income of peasants in 2020 will reach between RMB12,000 and RMB15,000 in view of that (about RMB6,000) in 2010. The masses need a wealth management platform characterized by diversified functions and high efficiency with the dramatic increase of the per capita income, while the capital market could provide the function of wealth management for the public. The aging of population in the country is deepened in synchronization with the soaring increase of the masses' incomes. In 2020, the country's people at the age of 65 or above will account for 12% of the total population. However, the construction of China's social security and pension system has lagged behind. The country's long-term funds such as social security funds and enterprise annuities are facing the huge pressure of maintenance and appreciation of values for the reasons including few investment channels and undeveloped institutional systems. By the end of 2011, the accumulative balance of the country's social security funds had been RMB3 trillion, while 98% had been deposited in financial institutions with high opportunity costs and invisible losses. Thus, it is necessary to make full use of the capital market to operate and manage the funds, so as to realize the maintenance and appreciation of values in the market-oriented way. Fifthly, the all-round moderately prosperous society as well as the social and economic transition for upgrading will provide opportunities for listed companies to propel their business performances. The country's capital market will give birth to a lot of listed companies boasting their leading roles in relevant sectors, explosive growth of operational spaces, and excellent accounting performances, thanks to the continuous propelling of the conservation-minded and eco-friendly society, the dramatic improvement of industrialization, informatization, urbanization, and agri-modernization, the completion of the moderately prosperous society and the consumption upgrading resulting from the soaring incomes of residents, the successful realization of the innovation-oriented country, as well as the boom of strategic emerging industries, advanced manufacturing industry, and modern service industry. The listed companies will give continuous and high payoffs to investors, so that the public can fully enjoy the fruits accruing from the rapid economic growth. Sixthly, the various portfolios provided by the capital market will contribute to the sharp increase of the incomes of residents from wealth management. The increasing investment targets and portfolios will be available, thanks to the promotion of the market-oriented reform, the continuous growth of the innovative business of securities and fund companies, and the increasing innovative products. Besides, ranging from the currency market, the bonds market, and the stock market to all kinds of graded and mixed product portfolios, product chains featuring diversified risk and income structures will be built to meet the investors with different risk appetites. Thus, investors will get more returns and property incomes from the capital market, while the over-dependence of residents' property incomes on low deposit interests will be thoroughly broken as well. III. Outlook for Future Development of China's Capital Market Making a comprehensive deployment for the reform and development of China's capital market at present and for some time in the future, the "Planning for Reform and Development of the Financial Sector in the ''12th Five-Year Plan' Period" and the report of the 18th National Congress of CPC have put forward the specific tasks such as "significantly increasing the proportion of direct financing", "deepening the reform of the share issuance system", "vigorously developing the bond market", "pushing forward the development of the futures and financial derivatives markets", "strengthening the building of the fundamental market systems" and "deepening the reform of the financial system, improving the modern financial system that promotes the macroeconomic stability and supports the development of the real economy, and developing the multi-tiered capital market". For some time in the future, significant breakthroughs will be made in various aspects of China's capital market such as size, structure, competitiveness, standardization and openness.        In terms of the size of the market, the proportion of direct financing will be significantly increased. With the full optimization of the social financing structure, the proportion of the direct financing in the total social financing is expected to be increased to 30% to 40%. The financial system based on direct financing will be initially formed with the basically balanced financial structure. The flexibility and stability of the financial system will be significantly enhanced and the ability of preventing and cracking the systematic and regional financial risks will be remarkably improved. In terms of the market structure, stocks, bonds, futures, financial derivatives and other capital market instruments will develop in full to achieve more rational and balanced market structure. There will be more financial products, the market will be greatly deepened and expanded, the mechanism of exchange will be more complete and more efficient, and the market system characterized by multiple levels, high efficiency and full coverage will be gradually formed, in a bid to meet the diversified demands for investment and financing. In terms of the market competitiveness, the international competitiveness and influence of the main market players will be improved dramatically. A batch of securities companies, modern wealth management institutions and intermediary service agencies with international competitiveness will emerge with the level of the financial services fully improved and the institutional investors becoming main investors with decisive influence. The listed companies will see sound governance and standardized operation as well as remarkable enhancement of the overall quality. In terms of the standardization of the market, the legal system of the market will be further improved. The principle of "just, fair and open" will be effectively observed, the transparent and efficient regulatory system will be completed on the whole, the market will run in a more stable way, the investors' legitimate rights and interests will be fully protected, and the innovative activities of all the markets will enjoy more space for development and flexibility. In terms of the market openness, the market will be more open and more inclusive. The level of international financial institutions and international capital participating in China's capital market will be further improved, the infrastructures for financial services will reach the advanced level in the world, and the Renminbi capital account will be effectively promoted to achieve convertibility, in a bid to further improve the capacity of China's economy in the global allocation of resources. As an important platform for the allocation of resources and wealth management, China's capital markets are shouldering more important historical mission. For some time in the future, we should continue to accelerate the pace of the market-oriented reforms, and gradually build a mature capital market compatible with the level of China's economic development as well as a world-class capital market with adequate systematic structure, sound operation mechanism, fully playing functions, and plentiful returns for investment, thus making more contributions to supporting and boosting the growth of the real economy.

Gui Minjie: Foreign Institutional Investors Eye on A-share Market
12 Nov 2012
"Foreign Institutional Investors are very interested in China's A-share Market. The annualized rate of return for QFII's investment has reached about 16% since 2003", said Gui Minjie, Deputy to the 18th CPC National Congress, Secretary of the CPC Committee of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and SSE Governor, and Board Chairman of the China Financial Futures Exchange, in intensive interviews held in Beijing yesterday. Gui also disclosed that preparations for treasury bond futures were on a normal track. Great efforts were made to strive for the opening of treasury bond futures in 2012, while no schedule had been made yet. When it came to the issue of cracking down on insider trading, Gui said that insider trading, a malignant tumor of the capital market, almost exists in every stock market. All the regulatory authorities around the world had taken the crack down on insider trading as one of their major regulatory duties. As an emerging market sprouting in China's economic transition, the country's capital market needs to be perfected gradually in terms of concept, rule, system, and others, as insider trading prevails in the market. Gui held that reasons for the above problem included the undeveloped corporate governance of China's listed companies, the lengthy decision-making chains in companies, and the considerable insiders of inside information. The China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) had carried out an array of measures against insider trading in recent years. First, efforts were made to boost the crack down on insider trading by 5 ministries or commissions, with great achievements witnessed over the past 3 years. Second, pains were taken to build a registration system of insiders of inside information, which played a key role in preventing insider trading. Third, rule-breaking behaviors were punished as well. Over the past years, importance was attached to crack down on insider trading in the processes of regulation and law enforcement, with a batch of major and typical cases solved. Fourth, the CSRC cooperated with judicial authorities in releasing judicial interpretations to define the behaviors of insider trading, which facilitated the procedures for giving criminal sanctions. Gui pointed out that it was quite difficult to cope with the problem of insider trading. Where there is a market, there is speculation. The existence of speculation implies the possibility of insider trading. Therefore, regulatory authorities would take it as a long-term crucial task to crack down on insider trading in the law enforcement. When talking about the support of the capital market for technological innovation, Gui said that while opening the Growth Enterprises Board, expanding the pilot services of the New Third Market, and rationalizing the regional equity market, the CSRC was cooperating with the Ministry of Science and Technology to issue policy documents and make institutional arrangements especially for such problems as the ownership of intangible assets of technology enterprises and the unclear property rights, thus advancing the development of these enterprises and the technological innovation.

Capital Market to Take Off amid Sustained Economic Growth
08 Nov 2012
According to the research report recently completed by the Capital Market Institute of the Shanghai Stock Exchange, China has maintained a good momentum in economic growth. With a series of new positive policies to be released, the country will show great potential and bright prospects in its economic growth in the medium and long run. Accordingly, China's capital market is sure to make another qualitative leap by following the development trend of China's economy. The report says that it is common that China faces the falling economy and inflation as well as a decline in corporate profits at the micro level during the period of economic transition. These phenomena reveal that China's economy is at the starting stage for the change in growth pattern. The report points out that the deepening of urbanization, the transition of economic structure, and the upgrading of industrial structure will become three new driving forces to promote the sustained growth of Chinese economy. Apart from the three driving forces, beneficial policies in future reforms will play a critical role in economic growth. As the reforms move forward, the total factor productivity will grow further, which will mitigate the potential risk of the slowdown in economic growth in the future. Based on the above statements, the report concludes that China's economy will make a leap forward, which will initiate a new era for the development of the Chinese capital market. In the new era, the shift in the economic growth pattern and the adjustment to the economic structure will depend mainly on the resource allocation in the capital market. In the past year, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) carried out reforms and innovations in various aspects. To be specific, the CSRC adopted the measures including advocating value investing, deepening the reform in the new share issuance system, perfecting the delisting system, rationalizing the system for dividend distribution of listed companies, protecting the rights and interests of small and medium-sized investors, promoting the development of the bond market, and propelling long-term capital to get into the market. These measures gave a direction for the further reform and development of the securities market and laid a solid foundation for the long-term development of the market. It is believed that after the reforms and innovations sponsored by the CSRC take effect, China's capital market is bound to make a qualitative leap with the new development of the Chinese economy.

SSE Organizes Experts to Talk about China's Capital Market
06 Nov 2012
The Development Research Center of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held an experts' symposium themed with "Talks about Development of the Capital Market in Honor of the 18th National Congress of the Communist Party of China" on November 5, with a view to promoting the innovation and development of the capital market and enhancing its capability of serving the real economy. At the symposium, experts and scholars from companies in securities, fund and insurance sectors as well as researchers from the SSE reviewed the progress of the Chinese capital market in the past decade and looked ahead into the innovation and development of the market in the future. SSE Chief Economist Hu Ruyin pointed out at the symposium that since taking office, Chairman Guo Shuqing of the China Securities Regulatory Commission had devoted himself to propelling the development of the capital market in a more open, law-based, market-oriented and internationalized way, carrying out reform and innovation in various aspects, advocating value investing and rational investment, deepening the reform in the new share issuance system, pushing forward the dividend distribution of listed companies, rationalizing the delisting system, developing the over-the-counter market, and implementing the opening-up strategy. All this brought both opportunities and challenges to the SSE in the construction of the blue chip market. Apart from its efforts on the construction of the multi-tiered blue chip market, the SSE has been long committed to keeping close relations with members of the same circle, soliciting opinions and suggestions from the market, promoting the development of the bond market, the wealth management market, and the derivatives market, and enhancing the construction of the blue chip market in an all-round way, in a bid to provide investors with diversified products and services and improve the capability of serving the capital market and the real economy. At the symposium, Hu Ruyin made a systematic review on the development of the Chinese capital market in the past decade. According to him, by the end of 2002, there were only 1,223 companies listed on the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, with the market capitalization less than RMB3.8 trillion. After ten years' development, there are 2,494 companies listed on the two exchanges as of last weekend, with the number of investors' accounts exceeding 200 million and the market capitalization reaching RMB21.8 trillion in total. According to the latest ranking list of the World Federation of Exchanges, the market capitalization of stocks in the capital market in China's mainland ranks the third in the world and the first in Asia. Hu stressed that the Chinese capital market achieved a qualitative leap while making great quantitative changes. The experts present at the symposium agreed that the capital market made significant contributions to the establishment of the modern enterprise system and the development of the real economy. In the decade, a number of state-owned and private enterprises improved their own competitiveness through restructuring and listing as well as merger, acquisition and reorganization, and became industry leaders renowned at home and abroad. The current capital market has developed from a small one and made itself more open to enterprises of all sizes. In the decade, the Chinese capital market has gone through a rise in the number of listed companies and the market capitalization, and a fall in the total price-earnings ratio from 36 down to lower than 13. A sharp decline in the average price-earnings ratio implies a relatively full release of market risks, a rise in investment attraction and a stable foundation for the long-term development of the market. At present, the dividend yield ratio of the SSE 180 Index big-cap blue chips is about 2.3%, higher than that of Standard & Poor's 500 Index, which embodies the unique investment value of the Chinese stock market. The experts said that the Chinese capital market had made remarkable progress in many fields in the past ten years. The market rectification has been reinforced while the market mechanism, the market structure and the institutional environment have been improved. In particular, while launching a lot of innovative work and procedures, the capital market has put forward many innovative ideas of fundamental importance since last year. The full implementation of the ideas would narrow the gap between the Chinese capital market and the mature markets. As for the future development of the capital market, the experts present at the symposium expressed their optimistic attitudes toward it and contributed their sound ideas. Chief Economist Yang Chengzhang of Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co., Ltd. stressed that in the future, the Chinese securities market should put more focus on the services for the real economy than the development of finance for the sake of finance. He thought that the narrowing gap between China and developed countries, the western and eastern part of China, as well as the urban and rural areas of the country would become a new driving force for the economic development of China under the circumstance of a decline in growth dividend. Senior Economist Lin Caiyi of Guotai Junan Securities Co., Ltd. said that compared with mature markets, China was confronted with some disadvantages in developing the bond market so great efforts should be made on the development of the company credit bond market in the future. She emphasized that the Chinese capital market should keep on with the market-oriented way for further development, and attach importance to the deepened reform in the new share issuance system. Furthermore, the exchanges should accelerate the transition into companies and shoulder the responsibility for reform and innovation. Chief Strategist Shao Yu of Orient Securities Company Limited held that China's economic growth in the future would depend on the rationalization of three driving forces, namely deepened urbanization, a great era of consumption, and internationalization of RMB. At present, the RMB-dominated capital market should be built and the RMB-denominated financial market expanded in an all-round way to meet the demand for internationalization of RMB. He also said that the dividend distribution system of listed companies promoted by the regulatory authorities would achieve positive effects on the market development. Deputy General Manager Zhu Anping of the Research Division of China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co., Ltd. said that the Chinese capital market should speed up reform and innovation to provide insurance companies and other institutional investors with more investable products. Besides, equity and ETF options, warrants, and other risk management instruments should be offered to bring all-round convenience to investors in their asset allocation and risk prevention. Chief Economist Yang Ming of HuaAn Fund Management Co., Ltd. and Deputy Director Liu Yu of the Research Division of Fullgoal Fund Management Co., Ltd. respectively made an in-depth analysis of the construction of the blue chip market and expressed their views on future investment strategies. They held that the defects currently existing in the Chinese securities market would bring huge spaces and institutional dividends to the market development. Besides, they were convinced of a brighter future for the Chinese capital market.

SSE Guides Listed Companies' Rewards to Investors
02 Nov 2012
In the process of implementing the "Notice of Strengthening the Publicity of ‘Active Rewards to Investors’" issued by the Investor Protection Bureau of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has made all-round efforts in guiding listed companies to reward investors by attaching importance to the problems concerned by investors, improving the publicity of active rewards to investors from multiple perspectives, and organized a series of publicity campaigns since the second half of this year. Cash dividend distribution is an important form for listed companies to reward investors. It is learnt that the SSE has worked out the "Guidance for Cash Dividend Distribution of SSE-listed Companies (Draft Version)" (the Guidance for Dividend Distribution for short) to solicit opinions from the public, in light of ambiguous expectations of dividend distribution, unsatisfactory dividend payout ratios, and other problems in some companies. The Guidance for Dividend Distribution, by considering the characteristics of China’s capital market and drawing on the merits of overseas mature markets, has reinforced listed companies’ obligation of disclosing relevant issues of cash dividend distribution, as well as further cemented the maneuverability of the policy of cash dividend distribution, the relevant decision making, and the disclosure of relevant information, with an aim of guiding, encouraging, and urging listed companies to build a sustainable and expectable mechanism of rewarding shareholders. Since this June, the SSE has successively sponsored the campaign themed with "New Impetuses from Blue Chips: Small and Medium-sized Investors Walking into Listed Companies". Small and medium-sized investors were organized to visit Shanghai International Port (Group) Co., Ltd., SAIC Motor Corporation Limited, Xi’an Shaangu Power Co., Ltd., China South Publishing & Media Group, NARI Technology Development Co., Ltd., and other listed companies, which were listed into the SSE 180 index. All this facilitated the face-to-face talks between investors and executives. In order to enhance the publicity result, the SSE has published an array of articles including those entitled "Perfecting Dividend Distribution Systems of Listed Companies and Elevating Long-term Investment Value of the Market" and "An Introduction to Listed Companies’ Experience in Dividend Distribution in Mature Markets" in newspapers, on TV channels, and its official website. These articles aimed to assist investors in understanding the concepts including dividend payout ratio and analyzing the dividend distribution of the SSE-listed listed companies, guide them to form rational viewpoints on the status quo and improvements of listed companies’ rewards to investors, and urge listed companies to foster the sense of responsibility for serving and rewarding investors. Besides, the SSE has made TV programs about interviews to executives including board chairmen and secretaries to directorates by selecting a batch of typical blue-chip listed companies and cooperating with TV stations, in an effort to facilitate investors’ understanding listed companies. In these interviews, listed companies’ executives introduced corporate operation, industrial prospects, investor relation management, dividend distribution policies, and others. The interviews provided by the SSE have not only helped investors know more about listed companies and elevate their confidence to the market and listed companies, but also provided platforms for listed companies to initiatively show the operational achievements and fulfillment of social responsibilities. Apart from intensifying the publicity, the SSE has focused on its interaction with investors. Making full use of "SSE Release" (its official microblog), the SSE has held the "Microblog-based Interview" with the theme of "‘Guidance for Dividend Distribution’ and Market Integrity Construction", in which relevant officials, experts, heads of relevant departments, and representatives of listed companies were invited to compare notes with investors on the analysis of the Guidance for Dividend Distribution, the tax on dividends, the measures to be taken for encouraging listed companies’ dividend distribution. The SSE has also organized trainings of listed companies’ executives, so as to intensify listed companies’ awareness of rewarding investors. In the follow-up trainings for secretaries to directorates and the qualification trainings of independent directors of listed companies, the SSE arranged the courses related to the reinforcement of listed companies’ investor relation management, the upgrading of services for small and medium-sized investors, as well as the improvement of the quality of listed companies’ information disclosure and the level of cash dividend distribution, etc., in a bid to intensify the executives’ awareness of rewarding, service, and social responsibility, and assist listed companies in building the corporate culture of attaching importance to rewarding investors. Moreover, the SSE has formulated and issued the "Notice of Sorting Out and Releasing Regulatory Documents on Information Disclosure of Listed Companies". A fraction of operational and explanatory business guides were only open to listed companies previously, while the SSE made all the regulatory documents on information disclosure public to help market participants abide by regulatory rules. An SSE official said that on the basis of traditional publicity channels, the SSE rationalized relevant working mechanisms. On one hand, the SSE, by taking advantage of data resources, wrote research reports on such topics as dividend distribution of listed companies, corporate governance, and investor relation management to give professional support for publicity. On the other hand, the SSE positively developed an interactive platform for investor relations of listed companies with the aid of its website, so as to provide an express online channel for "Direct Talks" between investors and listed companies as well as further strengthen the mechanism for supervision of the markets and regulatory authorities on listed companies’ services for investors. The official finally said that the SSE would continuously carry out relevant work plans for some time to come, in a bid to cultivate the equity culture themed with "Initiatively Rewarding Investors" and foster the concept of long-term investment and value investing by enhancing publicity with wider media coverage, innovating on the ways of self-regulation and services for investors, and reinforcing the supervision on and guidance for listed companies.

SSE Report: Blue Chips Perfect for Long-term Investment
29 Oct 2012
According to the latest research report made by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), an array of major reforms launched by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) since 2012 have got active responses from the market and witnessed the increasing policy effects, with the appeal of the market being enhanced as well. At present, domestic blue-chip companies have long-term investment values in light of historical data of the market valuation, listed companies' performances and dividend distributions at home and abroad, as well as investors' incomes from long-term shareholding. The low market valuation The SSE report presented an argumentation for the viewpoint above in the following 3 aspects. First, the historical data of the market valuation at home and abroad showed that China's securities market would have long-term investment values. When the SSE Composite Index closed at 2,066 points on October 26, 2012, the price-to-earnings ratio reached 11.16, lower than those of the previous two bottoms, namely, the price-to-earnings ratio of 16.52 when the SSE Composite Index closed at 998 on June 6, 2005 and that of 12.25 when the SSE Composite Index closed at 1,664 on October 28, 2008. Besides, the current P/B ratio of 1.5 on the SSE market is lower than 1.64 and 1.96 on June 6, 2005 and October 28, 2008, respectively. In horizontal contrast to major securities markets in other countries and regions at the same time, the current dynamic price-earnings ratio of the SSE Composite Index is 10.95, only higher than that (10.34) of the Hang Seng Index of Hong Kong. Moreover, the current dynamic P/B ratio of the SSE Composite Index is 1.5, a low figure in the world's markets. The high profitability levels and dividend rates Second, the profitability levels and dividend rates of listed companies indicate the current investment value of the Chinese securities market. It was pointed out in the report that according to the micro financial data of listed companies, in the middle of 2012, the average earning per share and the net asset value per share for A shares on the SSE respectively reached RMB0.16 and RMB3.53, 1.6 times and 1.3 times of those in the middle of 2005, while the return on equity (ROE) and the return on assets (ROA) increased by 38.8% and 1.9% compared with those in the middle of 2005. In the middle of 2012, a total of 590 listed companies had distributed dividends, higher than that (430) in the middle of 2005, while the total amount of dividend distribution in the middle of 2012 reached RMB529.78 billion, 8.5 times of that in the middle of 2005. Furthermore, the dividend rates of listed companies on the SSE market witnessed remarkable increases in recent years. In 2011, the dividend rates of the SSE 50 Index's constituents, the SSE 180 Index's constituents, and the SSE 380 Index's constituents respectively reached 2.46%, 1.91%, and 1.38%. Buying at a low price for long-term investment: a good profitability model Third, investors' incomes from long-term shareholding indicated that buying at a low price for long-term investment would be a good profitability model. It is held in the report that concerning investors' incomes from long-term investment on the A-share market, if investors could rationally buy when they see the obvious investment value of the market, instead of aimless purchase on the upswing and sale on the downswing, they might get better incomes and enjoy the investment values resulting from the growth of the real economy. The report also studied investors' complete incomes from long-term shareholding from 2003 to 2011 by taking the SSE 180 complete income indices, a representative of blue chips, as the constituents. The research showed that the accumulative yield of the SSE 180 complete income indices had reached 122.22% by the end of 2011, with the annualized rate of return up to 9.28%. Thus, the A-share market on the SSE market, especially the blue chips such as the SSE 50 and 180 Indices' constituents, had the long-term investment value obviously.

Differentiated Levy of Dividends Tax to be Launched
29 Oct 2012
It is recently learnt that relevant department is studying the policy of imposing differentiated levy of the income tax on dividends received by individual investors in accordance with their shareholding periods, in a bid to optimize the investor structure of China's capital market and encourage long-term investment. According to sources, different tax rates might be imposed on the income tax on dividends received by investors for three intervals of shareholding period, namely, less than 1 month, 1 month to 12 months, more than 12 months. The lowest tax rate will go to the longest shareholding period. In light of the depressed market, market insiders previously suggested that policies be released as soon as possible to reduce the income tax on dividends or impose differentiated levy of dividends tax according to investors' shareholding periods, so as to encourage value investing and elevate investors' confidence to the market. It is also learnt that the fundamental thought for the tax adjustment is to impose differentiated tax rates for different shareholding periods under the precondition that the overall tax is decreased, with an aim of advocating long-term investment. The state-regulated tax rate will be imposed for the shareholding period less than 1 month, which will not benefit from the policy of halving dividends tax. However, the tax rate for the shareholding period more than 1 month will see a dramatic drop. Dong Dengxin, Head of Finance and Securities Research Institute of Wuhan University of Science and Technology, told that the implementation of the policy of differentiated levy of dividends tax would considerably propel the concepts of long-term investment and value investing and develop the values of big-cap blue chips, in light of the current problems in the market such as short-term investment and high turnover rate. "The stock prices of big-cap blue chips are underestimated at present, while their dividend payout ratios are so high. The policy of differentiated levy of dividends tax will be conducive to facilitating long-term investment. In the future, investors could not only get share premium incomes, but also harvest dividends from big-cap blue chips", said Dong. In 2005, relevant department released the policy of halving the income tax on dividends received by individual investors from listed companies for boosting the growth of China's capital market. The move contributed to strengthening investors' confidence to the market and gradually improving the cash dividend distribution of listed companies. Nevertheless, the policy above which failed to involve differentiated levy according to investors' shareholding periods could not help foster a concept of long-term investment. Experts held that from a static view, the overall tax would see a slight drop after implementing differentiated levy of dividends tax. From a dynamic view, the change in tax levy would mark a structural adjustment to the tax of investors. The overall tax will expect a dramatic decrease if the shareholding structure of investors is adjusted in this direction. Taxation policies, acting as leverages for the economy and all the sectors, can guide investor to boycott short-term investment. While making decisions on investment, investors will correspondingly adjust their consideration on capital distribution, holding of different kinds of shares, shareholding period, and other investment elements in view of different intervals and tax rates. Once investors reach a consensus, it will be conducive to building the concepts of long-term investment and value investing, while the companies with high dividend rates will receive more attention in the market as well. Recently, all the reforms and innovative measures are boosted in China's capital market. This year, the regulatory authority has remarkably reduced transaction fees and supervision fees of the securities and futures markets three times in succession by adhering to the general thought of continuously reducing trading costs, improving market efficiency, and easing investors' burdens. It is also learnt that the tax policies for QFIIs, crude oil futures, and others, highly concerned by overseas investors, are being studied for being fixed as soon as possible. Besides, more efforts are being made to study the taxes for the new businesses in support of the innovative growth of the capital market.

Notice of Release of Shortlists of Candidates and List of Expert Committee's Members for 2012 Special Awards for Corporate Governance
29 Oct 2012
All market participants, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will continuously conduct an appraisal of special awards of corporate governance of listed companies this year, in a bid to improve their corporate governance. The two special awards include "Award of Board of Directors of Listed Companies in 2012" and "Award of Information Disclosure of Listed Companies in 2012". The SSE released the "Notice of SSE Appraisal for Award of Board of Directors of Listed Companies and Award of Information Disclosure of Listed Companies in 2012", and publicized the appraisal scheme and standard on September 28, 2012. Upon the voluntary application for taking part in the appraisal, the verification of application documents, and the preliminary selection by the SSE selection panel, twenty candidates have entered the shortlists of the two awards, respectively. The SSE selection panel has also fixed the list of the expert committee's members, among which most are members of the Expert Consultative Committee for SSE Corporate Governance Sector Appraisal, while the rest are representatives of major market participants. It hereby releases the shortlists of candidates (Attachment I) and the list of the expert committee's members (Attachment II). Please send your opinions or suggestions on the shortlists and the list above to the SSE by fax or e-mail before November 2, 2012. Fax: 021-68802819; E-mail: fwu@sse.com.cn The SSE will summarize and verify all feedbacks after the publicity period. In the middle of November, it will submit the shortlists of candidates to the expert committee, which will work out 10 winners for both awards, respectively. Shanghai Stock Exchange October 29, 2012

Gui Minjie: SSE Committed to Optimizing Legal Environment of Capital Market
17 Oct 2012
"Currently and for some time in the future, the revision and formulation of the three laws for the capital market, namely, the 'Securities Law', the 'Securities Investment Fund Law' and the 'Futures Law', are to make the focus of the concerns of the market participants and the legislatures", said Governor Gui Minjie of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) at the 4th Annual Meeting of the Special Committee of Financial Trial Theory under the China Trial Theory Research Society also the Seminar of "Rules and Systems of the Financial Market in Innovation and Transformation" held yesterday. He also said that as the legal system of the capital market is of great importance to the innovation and development of the market, the SSE will make further contributions to the optimization of the legal environment of the capital market.          Legal Construction Boosting Sound Market Development Gui pointed out that for more than 2 decades since China's capital market was established, along with the foundation, construction and development of the capital market, significant advancement and remarkable progress have been made in the legal construction of the market. As of now, a set of comprehensive, complete and systematic market rules have been formed with the self-discipline rules of the market as the foundation, the laws, as well as administrative regulations and rules as the main part, and the judicial interpretations and judicial policies as supplements. Since the equity division reform, China's capital market has achieved significant development and transformational changes, the scale and influence of the market have expanded rapidly, the market functions have been remarkably improved, and the capacity and role of the market in serving the economy and the society have been substantially enhanced. During the process, the synchronized development of China's capital market and the relevant legal construction has made great contributions to the growth of the capital market. With the economic restructuring and adjustment in China, the reform and innovation of the capital market and the real economy have posed higher demands for the capital market, while the current system of market rules is in the face of new situations and challenges. Therefore, it has been an important and urgent task currently to push forward the institution, revision and abolishment of laws as well as adjust and improve the market legislation in a systematic way. Increasingly Ripe Opportunities and Conditions for Laws Revision "Specifically, it has been many years since the Securities Law and the Securities Investment Fund Law, the core of the system of the capital market rules, were revised or instituted, the market backgrounds and foundations of the two laws are significantly different from those at the time of the making of the laws, and a series of market reforms and innovations have demanded for the systematic revision of the laws", said Gui. Currently, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) has organized the industry to carry out the assessment of the implementation effects of the "Securities Law". Gui said that phased research results showed that as the market participants have reached extensive consensus on the necessity and urgency for the revision of the laws, the opportunities and conditions for the revision have been increasingly ripe. Gui indicated that the revision of the "Securities Investment Fund Law" has lasted for 2 or 3 years, while the mature draft amendment has been formed, which has gained full recognition from the legislatures and the related parties. Currently, the draft amendment is in the course of the examination of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress. Gui also said that after years of development, China's futures market has seen a full range of varieties of products, active trading and extensive influence, as well as a substantial increase of the position and importance in the national economy. The call for the institution of the "Futures Law" from the industry and the academia are stronger and stronger, so the legislation for the futures is increasingly urgent. According to Gui's call, in order to further give play to the role of the capital market in serving the real economy and allocate resources through the market as much as possible, currently and for some time in the future, the revision and formulation of the above-mentioned three laws should become the focus of the market participants and the legislatures. In addition to the revision and formulation, the corresponding supportive rules and regulations should be sorted out and adjusted fully. At present the innovation and development of China's capital market are accelerated. As an important part of the securities market, the SSE is also in the face of new opportunities and challenges. In this regard, Gui held that as an important organizer of the market, the SSE, by making full use of its advantages, could play a greater role in boosting the reform and growth of the market, as well as serving and supporting the innovation of the market. Finally, Gui said that the SSE, as the forefront player in the capital market and the hub of the market, will facilitate the optimization of the legal environment of the capital market.

Constituent Periodical Review of SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index
28 Sep 2012
Constituent Periodical Review of SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index (To Be Effective as of Oct 8th 2012)   Deletions Additions Bond code Bond shortened name Bond code Bond shortened name 122012 08保利债 122016 09中材债 122013 08北辰债 122079 11上港02 122059 10重钢债 122093 11中孚债 122067 11南钢债 122115 11华锐01 122092 11大秦01 122149 12石化01 122106 11唐新01 122150 12石化02 122834 11牡国投 122151 12国电01 122836 11盘锦债 122944 09株城投 122888 10华靖债 126014 08国电债       Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd 2012-9-28

Notice of Disclosure of 3rd Quarter Reports of 2012 by Listed Companies
28 Sep 2012
All listed companies, To complete the disclosure of listed companies' 3rd quarter reports of 2012 (the quarterly reports), in accordance with relevant regulations including the "Rule No. 13 on Report Compilation for Information Disclosure of Companies with Securities Issued Publicly – ‘Special Regulation on Content and Format of Quarterly Reports'" (revised in 2007) of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and the "SSE Stock Listing Rules" (revised in 2012, hereinafter referred to as the "Listing Rules"), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby makes a notice as follows. 1. A listed company's board of directors should organize relevant personnel to carefully study various regulations of the CSRC and the SSE concerning the compilation, submitting and disclosure of quarterly reports, and fulfill the disclosure obligation of the quarterly report in accordance with the requirements. 2. Any company listed on the SSE before September 30, 2012 should complete the quarterly report disclosure before October 31, 2012. Any listed company failing to do so should submit in time a written explanation to the SSE and announce the reason and deadline of the postponed disclosure in the designated newspapers and on the website of the SSE. The SSE will suspend trading of its stock and derivatives according to the "Listing Rules", and publicly criticize the company and the personnel concerned. 3. The texts of the quarterly reports should be published in the designated newspapers, with the full texts published on the SSE website (www.sse.com.cn) as well. 4. A listed company should make an appointment for the timetable of the quarter report disclosure on the SSE website at the specified time and disclose its report as scheduled. If it would like to change its disclosure timetable, it should submit a written application to the SSE at least three trading days in advance, stating the reason and confirming the changed disclosure timetable. The SSE will decide whether to accept the application or not as the case may be. In principle, only one application for change will be accepted (the appointed dates for disclosure of the quarterly reports and their updates will be published on the SSE website). 5. The financial accounting reports in the quarterly reports may be free from auditing, excluding some otherwise stipulated by the CSRC and the SSE. 6. If a listed company's certified public accountant issues the non-standard unqualified opinion on the financial accounting report in the company's annual report of 2011 or its semi-annual report of 2012 and the issues involved in the opinion have not been handled, the progress of those issues in the 3rd quarter of 2012 should be specified in the full text of the quarterly report and in the text 3.2 "Progress in Significant Issues". If the quarterly financial report has been audited and the accounting firm has issued the non-standard unqualified opinion (including qualified opinion, disclaimer of opinion, adverse opinion and audit opinion with unqualified opinion on stressed issues or other issues), the listed company should submit relevant documents to the SSE in accordance with the stipulations in the Chapter 6 of the "Listing Rules". The explanation of its board of directors on the opinion should be disclosed in the full text of the quarterly report and in the text 3.2 "Progress in Significant Issues". 7. If a listed company's major accounting data and financial indicators during the reporting period fluctuate by more than 30% compared with those at the end of last year or in the same period of the year before, the situation and main reasons should be illustrated in the text 3.1 of the quarterly report. 8. If a listed company, its shareholder or its actual controller makes commitments during the reporting period or lasting till the reporting period, which include but are not limited to the commitments to equity division reform, to reports on purchase or reports on equity change, to assets reorganization and to initial public offering or re-financing as well as other commitments to its minority shareholders, the company's directorate should make remarks on the implementation of the commitments during the reporting period and disclose that in the text 3.3 of the quarterly reports. 9. If a listed company needs to make retroactive adjustments to its financial data of the previous reporting period in the quarterly report for modifying major accounting errors, it should disclose in the form of temporary announcements before or on the disclosure date of the quarterly report according to the CSRC's "Rules No. 19 on Report Compilation for Information Disclosure of Companies with Securities Issued Publicly -- Modification and Relevant Disclosure on Financial Information". 10. A listed company which has issued convertible bonds should disclose relevant contents in the quarterly report according to the requirements of Chapter VI of the "Listing Rules". Commercial banks, insurance companies, securities companies and companies engaged in real estate development business should execute the special regulations formulated by the CSRC on information disclosure of special industries or businesses. 11. Within two trading days after the quarterly report is discussed and approved by the directorate, a listed company should submit the following documents to the SSE by a special person, or through fax, or on the SSE website (i.e., the "Uploading E-Documents" Column in the "Section of Listed Companies"): 1) The full text and the text (one copy for each) of the quarterly report, which are signed by the legal person and sealed by the company; 2) The 3rd quarter financial accounting report of 2012 (one copy) signed and sealed by the legal person, the person in charge of accounting, the general accountant (if any), and the person in charge of accounting institution (the accounting director); 3) The written confirmation of the quarterly report signed by directors and the senior management; 4) The resolutions of the quarterly report discussed and approved by the directorate; 5) A written verification of the quarterly report put forward by the board of supervisors in the form of its resolution; 6) The application form for disclosure of the quarterly report (downloadable from the SSE website), ready-to-disclose temporary announcements (if the resolution of the directorate meeting contains only the approval of the quarterly report or the resolution of the board of supervisors meeting contains only the written verification, the disclosure of those resolutions can be exempted), and the application form for disclosure of relevant announcements (one copy for each); 7) If a listed company does not assign a special person to submit the quarterly report, it can disclose and submit relevant e-documents online through the "Uploading E-Documents" Column in the "Section of Listed Companies" on the SSE website, or send them by e-mail to list@sse.com.cn, and meanwhile confirm it in time with the SSE (special phone number for online disclosure: 021-68812036); 8) Other documents required by the SSE. 12. A listed company should submit the aforesaid documents prior to 3:30 pm of the trading day before the disclosure of its quarterly report, and it should not contact the designated newspapers for publishing the quarterly report until the SSE completes the relevant registration procedures and the day's trading is closed. 13. A listed company not assigning a special person to submit the quarterly report should post in time the original documents to the SSE after the quarterly report disclosure. 14. A listed company's directors, supervisors, senior management and other secrecy-bound personnel should fulfill the secret-keeping obligations during the compilation of the quarterly report, and they should not divulge the quarterly report in any way before the disclosure. 15. A listed company should pay close attention to the latest notices and other relevant documents under the "Section of Listed Companies" on the SSE website during the quarterly report's compilation and disclosure. 16. The SSE will implement after-action check toward the quarterly reports disclosed by listed companies. After receiving the examination opinions of the SSE, the companies are supposed to provide written explanations on the issues involved and publish relevant supplementary and modification announcements in the designated newspapers and on the SSE website in time as required by the SSE. Shanghai Stock Exchange September 28, 2012

Notice on 2012 Award of Board of Directors and 2012 Award of Information Disclosure
28 Sep 2012
All listed companies, This is to notify that Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will conduct appraisal of the 2012 Award of Board of Directors and the 2012 Award of Information Disclosure among listed companies to encourage SSE-listed companies to further regulate the operation of boards of directors, improve information disclosure, and set up good examples of corporate governance. I. Awards The 2012 Award of Board of Directors and the 2012 Award of Information Disclosure will be granted to 10 listed companies respectively. II. Candidates The candidates of the 2012 Award of Board of Directors include 277 companies of SSE's Corporate Governance Sector since July 2, 2012 when the adjustment comes into effect. The candidates of the 2012 Award of Information Disclosure include the companies which have been listed on the SSE for one year or more by the notice issuance date. Listed companies may apply for both of the two awards if eligible. III. Appraisal Procedures (I) Candidates' Application Eligible listed companies may apply for participating in the appraisal based on actual situations and work out reports as required by the SSE. (II) Selection Panel's Preliminary Selection The SSE's DepartmentⅠof Listed Companies Supervision and DepartmentⅡof Listed Companies Supervision will set up a selection panel to check the companies’ reports with daily supervision records, screen out the companies which submit false reports or have bad records, give marks to the companies according to the selection standards, and work out shortlists of 20 candidates for both awards. (III) Release of Shortlists of Candidates and List of Expert Committee's Members The SSE will release the preliminary shortlists of candidates and the list of the expert committee's members on major securities media. The expert committee is composed of 11 people, most of whom are members of the Expert Consultative Committee for SSE Corporate Governance Sector Appraisal. (IV) Expert Committee's Review The SSE will organize the expert committee to work out the lists of recommended companies by majority voting and anonymous voting. (V) SSE's Award Lists Determination The SSE will determine the final award lists according to the lists of recommended companies made by the expert committee, and release the final award lists on the award-giving day. (VI) Award Giving The SSE will give the awards to and commend the winners at the 11th China Corporate Governance to be held in December 2012. IV. Selection Standards Please refer to the "Qualifications for the 2012 Award of Board of Directors" (see Appendix 1) and the "Qualifications for the 2012 Award of Information Disclosure" (see Appendix 2) respectively. If you intends to apply for either or both of the awards, please complete declarations and formulate reports according to the "Qualifications for the 2012 Award of Board of Directors" and/or the "Qualifications for the 2012 Award of Information Disclosure"，and upload electronic documents to the SSE's "electronic documents upload entrance" for listed companies by clicking "The 2012 Award of Board of Directors" or "The 2012 Award of Information Disclosure" before 17:00, October 19, 2012. Contact Wu Fei for the 2012 Award of Board of Directors.   Tel.: 021-68806402 Contact Yuan Yufei for the 2012 Award of Information Disclosure. Tel.: 021-68805908 Shanghai Stock Exchange September 28, 2012

SSE's Promotion Rounded Off in North America
25 Sep 2012
According to the need of the Chinese capital market for opening to the outside world, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) recently organized a 10-day promotion campaign for the Chinese capital market. Relevant heads of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, some custody banks, fund management companies and securities companies participated in the campaign on invitation. With the deepening of reform and opening-up in the Chinese capital market, especially after the significant adjustment to the QFII regulatory systems in July 2012, international investors have paid more attention to the Chinese capital market and many institutional investors have put forward their requirements for strengthening and deepening exchanges between both sides. In line with the market demand, the SSE launched a market promotion campaign with the "going out" strategy, aiming to introduce to international institutional investors the latest progress in the Chinese capital market, notify them of the recent adjustments to the QFII systems, and expand the international influence of the Chinese capital market. In the 10-day promotion campaign, the delegation successively held three seminars on the Chinese capital market in San Francisco, New York and Boston, the USA, which witnessed the presence of over 50 institutional investors. Besides, the delegation paid one-to-one visits to over 30 institutional investors of the USA and Canada. During the process, the delegation not only gave an account of the achievements in the Chinese capital market as well as the recent major policies and measures about reform and opening-up, but also listened to the opinions and suggestions of overseas institutional investors on the development of the Chinese capital market. Both sides had exchanges and discussions across the board. The campaign aroused great resonance among institutional investors in North America. In addition, it expanded the international influence of the Chinese capital market and enhanced international investors' attention to and understanding of the Chinese capital market. Through the campaign, some institutional investors expected to apply for QFII qualifications as soon as possible while some institutions with QFII qualifications proposed their request of quota increase.

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2012 Mid-autumn Festival and National Day
19 Sep 2012
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the Mid-autumn Festival and the National Day of 2012 according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2012" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2011] No. 52) as follows: 1. The SSE will close from September 30 (Sunday) to October 7 (Sunday) and open for trading from October 8 (Monday) onwards. It will also close on the weekend on September 29 (Saturday). 2. To ensure the normal trading after the holiday, the SSE will provide an environment for a linkage test towards its trading systems from 09:30 to 12:00 on October 7 (Sunday). 3. Issues related to clearing will be carried out according to the arrangements of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange September 19, 2012

Huang Hongyuan Serves as SSE Deputy Party Secretary, President
11 Sep 2012
Huang Hongyuan will take over as Deputy Secretary of the SSE CPC Committee and President of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) because Zhang Yujun will no longer hold such posts and be transferred to the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) as required by work, according to the announcement made by Wu Lijun, Member of the CPC CSRC Committee and Assistant to Chairman of the CSRC on behalf of the CPC CSRC Committee on the afternoon of September 10, 2012.

SSE Regional Industry Top Index Series and CSI Regional Industry Top Index Series To Be Launched
05 Sep 2012
SSE Regional Industry Top Index Series and CSI Regional Industry Top Index Series To Be Launched   To further enhance the SSE and CSI index family as well as to provide new analysis tools and underlying instruments for investors, SSE and CSI together announced that SSE Regional Industry Top Index Series and CSI Regional Industry Top Index Series to be launched on Sep 27, 2012, including the SSE and CSI Bohai Industry Top Index, the SSE and CSI Yangtze Industry Top Index, the SSE and CSI Pan Pearl River Industry Top Index, the SSE and CSI Central Region Industry Top Index, the SSE and CSI West Region Industry Top Index and the SSE and CSI Northeast Region Industry Top Index. Regarding the methodology and more details of the above indices, please refer to the official website of SSE (www.sse.com.cn ) and the official website of CSI (www.csindex.com.cn) respectively.       Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. Sep 5, 2012     Appendix 1 SSE Regional Industry Top Index Series Methodology   1. Name and Code Code Name Shortened Name H50011 SSE Bohai Industry Top Index SSE Bohai Industry Top H50012 SSE Yangtze Industry Top Index SSE Yangtze Industry Top H50013 SSE Pan Pearl River Industry Top Index SSE Pan Pearl River Industry Top H50014 SSE Central Region Industry Top Index SSE Central Region Industry Top H50015 SSE West Region Industry Top Index SSE West Region Industry Top H50016 SSE Northeast Region Industry Top Index SSE Northeast Region Industry Top 2. Base Date and Base Index Base date: Dec 31, 2003. Base index:1000. 3. Constituents Selection (1) Region Classification of Listed Companies Bohai: Listed companies incorporated in Beijing, Tianjin, Hebei, Liaoning and Shandong; Yangtze: Listed companies incorporated in Shanghai, Jiangsu and Zhejiang; Pan Pearl River: Listed companies incorporated in Guangdong, Guangxi, Hainan, Yunnan, Guizhou, Sichuan, Hunan, Jiangxi and Fujian; Central Region: Listed companies incorporated in Shanxi, Anhui, Jiangxi, Henan, Hubei and Hunan; West Region: Listed companies incorporated in Shaanxi, Gansu, Ningxia, Qinghai, Xinjiang, Sichuan, Chongqing, Yunnan, Guizhou, Tibet, Guangxi and Inner Mongolia; Northeast Region: Listed companies incorporated in Liaoning, Jilin, Heilongjiang and Inner Mongolia. (2) Index Universe: All the Shanghai listed companies satisfied the following conditions: o  The listing time of a stock is more than three months unless the daily average total market value of a stock since its initial listing is ranked top 18 in Shanghai market; o  Non-ST or *ST stocks; non-temporary suspension stocks from trading; o  Incorporated in corresponding region. (3) Industry Classification: ？All the stocks in the universe classified into 25 industries, such as energy, materials, transportation etc. (4) Selection Method: ？Rank all the stocks in the universe by total market capitalization, trading values, revenue and profit in each industry respectively and sum up the four ranks to get the overall rank. And select the top ranked 2 stocks in each industry into corresponding region industry top index. 4. Index Calculation The SSE Region Industry Top index series is calculated using a Paasche weighted composite price index formula. The formula is:   Current index=Σ(Price×Adjusted No. of Shares×Weight Adjust Factor×Weight Cap Factor)/divisor×1000 Here, the calculation of adjusted no. of shares is the same with that of SSE180. Weight Adjust Factor=(Revenue/ΣRevenue + Profit/ΣProfit)/2/Mcap×10000000. Weight Cap Factor is between 0 and 1. The weights of individual components are capped at 15%. 5. Index Maintenance: the same with that of SSE180. 6. Constituents Review Constituents are reviewed every six months and the adjustment will be effective on the first trading day of July and Jan. Ongoing review can be made under certain circumstances if necessary. Appendix 2 CSI Regional Industry Top Index Series Methodology   1. Name and Code Code Name Shortened Name H30001 CSI Bohai Industry Top Index CSI Bohai Industry Top H30002 CSI Yangtze Industry Top Index CSI Yangtze Industry Top H30003 CSI Pan Pearl River Industry Top Index CSI Pan Pearl River Industry Top H30004 CSI Central Region Industry Top Index CSI Central Region Industry Top H30005 CSI West Region Industry Top Index CSI West Region Industry Top H30006 CSI Northeast Region Industry Top Index CSI Northeast Region Industry Top 2. Base Date and Base Index Base date: Dec 31, 2004. Base index:1000. 3. Constituents Selection (1) Region Classification of Listed Companies Bohai: Listed companies incorporated in Beijing, Tianjin, Hebei, Liaoning and Shandong; Yangtze: Listed companies incorporated in Shanghai, Jiangsu and Zhejiang; Pan Pearl River: Listed companies incorporated in Guangdong, Guangxi, Hainan, Yunnan, Guizhou, Sichuan, Hunan, Jiangxi and Fujian; Central Region: Listed companies incorporated in Shanxi, Anhui, Jiangxi, Henan, Hubei and Hunan; West Region: Listed companies incorporated in Shaanxi, Gansu, Ningxia, Qinghai, Xinjiang, Sichuan, Chongqing, Yunnan, Guizhou, Tibet, Guangxi and Inner Mongolia; Northeast Region: Listed companies incorporated in Liaoning, Jilin, Heilongjiang and Inner Mongolia. (2) Index Universe: All the listed companies satisfied the following conditions: o  The listing time of a stock is more than three months unless the daily average total market value of a stock since its initial listing is ranked top 30 in all the A shares; o  Non-ST or *ST stocks; non-temporary suspension stocks from trading; o  Incorporated in corresponding region. (3) Industry Classification: ？All the stocks in the universe classified into 25 industries, such as energy, materials, transportation etc. (4) Selection Method: ？Rank all the stocks in the universe by total market capitalization, trading values, revenue and profit in each industry respectively and sum up the four ranks to get the overall rank. And select the top ranked 2 stocks in each industry into corresponding region industry top index. 4. Index Calculation The CSI Region Industry Top index series is calculated using a Paasche weighted composite price index formula. The formula is:   Current index=Σ(Price×Adjusted No. of Shares×Weight Adjust Factor×Weight Cap Factor)/divisor×1000 Here, the calculation of adjusted no. of shares is the same with that of CSI300. Weight Adjust Factor=(Revenue/ΣRevenue + Profit/ΣProfit)/2/Mcap×10000000. Weight Cap Factor is between 0 and 1. The weights of individual components are capped at 15%. 5. Index Maintenance: the same with that of CSI300. 6. Constituents Review Constituents are reviewed every six months and the adjustment will be effective on the first trading day of July and Jan. Ongoing review can be made under certain circumstances if necessary.   Appendix 3  Constituents List Appendix 4  Constituents List

SSE Environmental Protection Industry Index,CSI Environmental Protection Industry Index To Be Launched
03 Sep 2012
SSE Environmental Protection Industry Index,CSI Environmental Protection Industry Index To Be Launched   Designed to serve as new investable benchmarks for investors, SSE and CSI today announced the upcoming launch of SSE Environmental Protection Industry Index，CSI Environmental Protection Industry Index on September 25th 2012. Regarding the methodologies and more details of the above indices, please refer to the official website of SSE (www.sse.com.cn) and CSI (www.csindex.com.cn).   Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. September 3rd 2012     Appendix 1 SSE Environmental Protection Industry Index Methodology 1. Index Code and Name Index Code: 000158 Index Name: SSE Environmental Protection Industry Index (SSE Environmental Protection） 2. Base Period and Base Point The Base Day for SSE Environmental Protection Industry Index is Dec 30, 2011. The Base Period is the adjusted market capitalization of all constituents after closing on the Base Day. The Base Index is 1000 points. 3.Constituents Selection Method Index Universe Stocks in A shares listed at Shanghai Stock Exchanges(Non-ST or *ST stocks). Constituents Selection   Step 1 Calculate the daily average trading value during the most recent year for stocks in the index universe, rank the stocks in the universe by daily average trading value in descending order and delete the bottom ranked 20% stocks； Step 2 Environmental Protection Industry screen: All the stocks in the universe which have more than 25% revenue derived from the following Environmental Protection Industry compose the Environmental Protection Industry theme stocks. l  Resource Management: the stocks which supply the equipment, technology and special materials, and provide the services, construction and installation for water supply, recycling of materials, renewable energy, clean energy generation, energy conservation and management, energy conversion and storage; l  Clean Technology and Product: the stocks which supply equipment, technology, special materials or service for cleaning / resource efficiency technology, processes and products; l  Pollution management : the stocks which supply the equipment, technology and special materials, and provide the services, construction and installation for air pollution control , waste water, solid waste management, noise elimination, environmental contracting and projects, environmental monitoring, analyzing, data collection, evaluating. Step 3 Rank all the Environmental Protection Industry stocks in the universe by total market capitalization and trading values respectively in descending order and sum up the two ranks to get the overall rank, and select the 40 top ranked companies into SSE Environmental Protection Industry Index. 4. Index Calculation and Maintenance SSE Environmental Protection Industry Index is equally weighted as the following calculation formula:     Current adjusted market cap of constituents Current index = ─────────────────────────    × 1000 Base Period Adjusted market cap = ∑(Price× Adjusted No. of shares× Equal Weight Factor). The calculation of adjusted no. of shares is the same with that of SSE 180. The Equal weight Factor is assigned to each constituent for a equal weight at each rebalancing. 5. Index Maintenance The same with that of SSE 180 Index. 6. Constituents Adjustment The constituent of SSE Environmental Protection Industry Index is periodically reviewed twice a year, namely in June and in December，and will be implemented on the first trading day of Jan and July. Temporary adjustment can be made under certain circumstances if necessary.     Appendix 2 CSI Environmental Protection Industry Index Methodology 1. Index Code and Name Index Code: 000827 Index Name: CSI Environmental Protection Industry Index (CSI Environmental Protection） 2. Base Period and Base Point The Base Day for CSI Environmental Protection Industry Index is Dec 30, 2011. The Base Period is the adjusted market capitalization of all constituents after closing on the Base Day. The Base Index is 1000 points. 3.Constituents Selection Method Index Universe The index universe is The CSI All Share index. Constituents Selection Step 1 Calculate the daily average trading value during the most recent year for stocks in the index universe, rank the stocks in the universe by daily average trading value in descending order and delete the bottom ranked 20% stocks； Step 2 Environmental Protection Industry screen: All the stocks in the universe which have more than 25% revenue derived from the following Environmental Protection Industry compose the Environmental Protection Industry theme stocks. l  Resource Management: the stocks which supply the equipment, technology and special materials, and provide the services, construction and installation for water supply, recycling of materials, renewable energy, clean energy generation, energy conservation and management, energy conversion and storage; l  Clean Technology and Product: the stocks which supply equipment, technology, special materials or service for cleaning / resource efficiency technology, processes and products; l  Pollution management : the stocks which supply the equipment, technology and special materials, and provide the services, construction and installation for air pollution control , waste water, solid waste management, noise elimination, environmental contracting and projects, environmental monitoring, analyzing, data collection, evaluating. Step 3 Rank all the stocks in environmental protection industry theme by average daily market cap in the past year and select the 100 top ranked companies into CSI Environmental Protection Industry Index.   4. Index Calculation and Maintenance CSI Environmental Protection Industry Index is equally weighted as the following calculation formula:     Current adjusted market cap of constituents Current index = ─────────────────────────    × 1000 Base Period Adjusted market cap = ∑(Price× Adjusted No. of shares× Equal Weight Factor). The calculation of adjusted no. of shares is the same with that of CSI 300. The Equal weight Factor is assigned to each constituent for a equal weight at each rebalancing. 5. Index Maintenance The same with that of CSI 300Index. 6. Constituents Adjustment The constituent of CSI Environmental Protection Industry Index is periodically reviewed twice a year, namely in June and in December，and will be implemented on the first trading day of Jan and July. Temporary adjustment can be made under certain circumstances if necessary.   Appendix 4   Constituents List Appendix 5    Constituents List

Notice of Adjusting Charging Standard of Trading Supervision Fee in Shanghai-based Securities Market
31 Aug 2012
All member units and clearing institutions, The charging standard for the A-share and B-share trading supervision fee in the Shanghai-based securities market from January 1, 2012 will be adjusted to 0.02‰ from 0.04‰ according to trading amounts, and the charging of the supervision fees of fund and bond trading will be exempted (The charging standard of warrant trading will refer to that of fund trading), according to the "Notice of Forwarding 'Notice of The National Development and Reform Commission as well as The Ministry of Finance on Dropping Charging Standard of Supervision Fees in Securities and Futures Markets and Other Issues'" issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission [A Letter of CSRC Accounting Department: (2012) No. 403]. Relevant rates for the trading and clearing in the Shanghai-based securities market from September 1, 2012 will be adjusted according to the above standard. The refund arising from charging according to the original standard from January 1 to August 31, 2012 will be notified later. Shanghai Stock Exchange Shanghai Branch of China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd. August 30, 2012

SSE Holds Symposium on Institutional-investors-oriented Innovative Services
29 Aug 2012
On the afternoon of August 27, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held the "Symposium on Institutional-investors-oriented Innovative Services", in a bid to introduce the SSE's thoughts of conducting institutional-investors-oriented innovative services to institutional investors and solicit opinions from them. SSE President Zhang Yujun delivered a speech at the symposium, which was presided over by SSE Vice President Huang Hongyuan. Also attending the symposium were SSE Vice President Xie Wei, and representatives from 18 institutional investors including securities companies, fund companies, insurance companies, trust companies, finance companies, QFIIs, private funds, and law firms. The representatives made speeches at the symposium as well. It was pointed out at the symposium that the development of institutional investors is a key mission and a strategic task for the reform and growth of the Chinese capital market. Upon 20 years of efforts, China's institutional investors have made outstanding achievements in absolute quantity, institution type, business size, competitiveness, and standardized operation. However, generally, in addition to imperfect systems and weak institutions, the institutions which had entered the exchange's core markets were insufficient. Institutional investors would face valuable opportunities as the conditions for rigorously developing professional investment institutions for the capital market had matured gradually. The development of institutional investors is a mission of the capital market. The SSE will continuously expand the service coverage, enhance the serving ability, and rationalized the services by taking the development of professional investment institutions and wealth management institutions as one of its key targets. Besides, it will issue new rules and establish new systems concerning institutional-investors-oriented innovative services in the near future, apart from providing pertinent innovative services for different institutional investors. The institutional investors present at the symposium said that the industry was considerably inspired by the symposium. The new rules and systems to be issued by the SSE would show the guidance of optimizing external environment, meeting institutions' needs, encouraging innovation and creation, and keeping the flexibility of systems and arrangements. Institutional investors would have new strategic opportunities. In light of the characteristics and needs of their operation, the institutions present at the symposium put forward constructive advices and suggestions on market entry, innovation of business modes, enrichment of risk management instruments, development of new products for the exchange-based markets, reform of trading systems, and perfection of regulatory rules to the SSE. Qiu Guogen, Board Chairman of Chongyang Investment suggested that efforts should be made to solve the impeded issuance channels of sunshine private funds as they were only issued by way of trust. Moreover, more endeavors should be made to loosen the proportion limit for institutional investors' hedging through stock index futures and other instruments. Lu Xiaoliang, General Manager of Product Innovation and R&D of Huabao Trust, put forward that pains should be taken to reform the recognition standard for the proportion of a trust product' holding of individual stocks according to the substantial essentials for trust-related asset management products, for the purpose of avoiding the drop of the asset management efficiency of trust products due to triggering an obligation of disclosing more than 5% shareholding proportion in form. Wu Haifeng, Chief Representative of Shanghai Representative Office of Nomura Asset Management, advised that the single-institution-oriented QFII quota should be dramatically increased, with an aim of encouraging international asset management institutions to invest more operational resources for meeting their clients' active demands for China's A-share asset. Ma Jun, Chief Investment Officer of Fixed Income of E Fund Management, put forward that certain trading leverage should be granted to institutional investors in the wholesale market, so as to boost the market liquidity. Finally, Chen Jiwu, General Manager of V.stone Investment Management, said that private funds should be allowed to open accounts as soon as possible and sell their products on the exchange's platforms. "The exchange promises that it will take positive attitudes towards institutional investors' initiatives, offer them services to satisfy their demands, and strengthen the coordination in their research", said an SSE official at the symposium. According to the official, in the process of their great development, institutional investors should set examples for others in terms of rational and professional investment and differentiate themselves from retail investors. They need to have their independent thinking and judgment as well as hold correct attitudes towards the economic growth and the market development, especially under the irrational circumstances of the market, rather than have herd-like behaviors in the capital market. Besides, institutional investors should not only become models for innovation and risk control, but also improve the transparency of their financial reports and rationalize their operation as the motive power and main force of market innovations. In the current market, institutional investors should earnestly study the market, and actively participate in the market construction from the perspective of clients' long-term interests. The market downturn gives institutional investors the time for developing themselves, so they should cultivate the thought of value investing and contrarian investment, face up to current difficulties, and make more efforts on constructive work.

SSE Special Lectures on Guiding Rational Investment Rounded Off
29 Aug 2012
After the mobilization meeting for guiding rational investment held on March 12, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) successively cooperated with 18 securities regulatory bureaus in Shanghai, Beijing, Chongqing, Zhejiang and other regions to hold special lectures on guiding rational investment for heads of business departments within the jurisdictions. The recent training class for guiding rational investment in Hunan marked a complete success on the activity as planned. As an important measure for the publicity of "Guidance for Rational Investment and Value Investing", the training mainly offers the courses involving the case study on "four speculations" (speculation on new shares, small-cap stocks, bad-performed shares and short-term investment), insider trading and market manipulation, the investor suitability management and the introduction to innovative business. According to the SSE, with the great support of the securities regulatory bureaus in a lot of regions, 14 training classes were organized in major cities in the northeast, north, east, south, southwest and northwest of China from April to August this year, with the number of directly trained participants up to 2,790. Besides, the SSE required the trainees to play a role in promoting the activity by conducting not less than three special training courses in the securities companies, with not less than 50 participants each time. Statistics shows that more than 15,000 persons have indirectly participated in the SSE's training activity themed "Guidance for Rational Investment". In the second half of 2012, the SSE will launch an annual appraisal on "Guidance for Rational Investment", in an effort to propel securities companies to hold publicity activities for investor education in an active and effective way and to earnestly take the cultural construction of rational investment as a long-term task.

Notice of Issuance of "SSE Implementation Measures (Trial) on Securities Lending of Refinancing"
27 Aug 2012
All member units, Upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby issues the "SSE Implementation Measures (Trial) on Securities Lending of Refinancing" (hereinafter referred to as the "Measures"), which shall come into effect from the issuance date. During the trial period, only institutional investors can be securities lenders, while pricing deals will be arranged for securities lending. Temporarily, the SSE will not accept agreed applications, nor will it charge securities lending. All member units are required to prepare for relevant business and technical system according to the "Measures". Shanghai Stock Exchange August 27, 2012

SSE: Enhancing Blue Chips' Value by Speeding up Reform and Innovation
23 Aug 2012
"SSE Release", the official microblog of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), held the first "Microblog-based Interview" with the theme of "'Guidance for Dividend Distribution' and Market Integrity Construction" on August 22. "The SSE pursues legalization, marketization, openness, and internationalization by adhering to the principles of independence, neutrality, service, self-regulation, competition, standardization, transparency, and accountability. Currently, the SSE has to fulfill its major duties of organizing the market trading, preventing market risks, tightening frontier supervision, developing innovative products, propelling technological progress, and providing all-round services for market participants, in a bid to build a sound market ", said SSE Vice President Xu Ming. Xu said that the SSE expected to further give full play to its positive role in boosting the reform and innovation of the market, build a more mature and rational market, and elevate the market value. Firstly, listed companies are the source of the market value and investment value. More efforts should be made to improve the corporate governance of listed companies for enhance their quality, and increase the value of the blue chip market, in addition to fueling the standardization and transparency of listed companies' operation. Secondly, the SSE will foster investors, especially long-term investors, through product and business innovation. At present, it is taking the lead in the innovation of 12 products. The SSE also encourages fund companies to develop more products and meanwhile supports sunshine private fund, PE, VC, pension funds and other long-term capital to get into the market. Thirdly, the SSE will create a good environment favorable for the reform, development, and innovation of the market, apart from strengthening investor education and integrating it with all the reform, development, and innovation measures. Xu also held that building an open financial market is a key step for developing the Chinese capital market and turning Shanghai into an international financial hub. In the next 10 years, one of the SSE's most important missions is to deepen the market reform and boost its internationalization process, so as to adapting to the opening-up of the Chinese financial market. The SSE's primary goal is to build itself into an exchange in line with China's economic strength and the international status of RMB for facilitating the development of the national economy. Concerning the tax on dividends concerned by investors, Lin Yongfeng, Head of No. 2 Listed Company Supervision Department of the SSE, said that cancelling tax on cash dividends would contribute to intensifying listed companies' intention of cash dividend distribution. According to sources, the China Securities Regulatory Commission is coordinating with relevant authorities to further study relevant policies of cash dividend distribution, in an effort to provide a good external environment for the cash dividend distribution of listed companies.

SSE 5-Year China Treasury Note (Futures Deliverables) Index and Other Two Indexes To Be Launched
21 Aug 2012
SSE 5-Year China Treasury Note (Futures Deliverables) Index and Other Two Indexes To Be Launched   Designed to serve as a new investable benchmark for bond investors as well as to promote innovation of China bond market, CSI today announced the upcoming launch of SSE 5-Year China Treasury Note (Futures Deliverables) Index, SSE Convertible Bond Index and CSI Convertible Bond Index on Sep 12th 2012. The base date of the former index is December 31st, 2007. The base index is 100. The latter two index’s base date is December 31st, 2002, The base index is 100.   Shanghai Stock Exchanges China Securities Index Co., LTD 2012-8-21 Appendix1 SSE 5-Year China Treasury Note (Futures Deliverables) Index.   n  Index Code/Index Name Index code：000140 Index name：SSE 5-Year China Treasury Note (Futures Deliverables) Index Index shortened name：5-Year China Treasury Note Full Price Index code：H00140 Full Price Index name：SSE 5-Year China Treasury Note (Full Price) Index Full Price Index shortened name：5-Year China Treasury Note (Full)   n  Constituents Selection Ø  Bond type: treasury notes listed on SSE market, which meet the designation transfer requirements on every delivery day in the delivery months of treasury note futures. Ø  Term to maturity: over 4 years and less than 7 years on the first day of the delivery months of treasury note futures. Ø  Interest bearing pattern: fixed rate   n  Index Calculation 1. Index Base Base date: 2007-12-31 Base point: 100 2. Calculation Formula Ø  Paasche weighted composite price index formula is used. The bond is weighted by its amount outstanding. Ø  Current index=[current total bond market value/that of base date]×base point Ø  Total market value=∑（clean price × amount outstanding）. 3. Pricing Rules Same as the pricing rules of existing CSI bond indices.   n  Index Adjustment 1. Adjustment Formula Divisor Adjustment Methodology. 2. Cases for Index Adjustment: Ø  Constituents adjustment Ø  Amount outstanding Adjustment— if issued amount of constituent bond changes, the index is adjusted before the change occurs.   n  Index Review Ø  Regular Adjustment: In principle, the constituents are reviewed and adjusted each quarter. The constituents’ adjustment is implemented on the first trading day after the second Friday of each delivery month of treasury note futures. In case that certain constituent is not able to satisfy the constituent’s selection criteria during the period between two consecutive periodic adjustments, CSI will deal with the case depending upon specific situation. Ø  Occasional Adjustment: Newly-issued bonds which meet the selection criteria are selected into the index on the next day of their issuance.   Appendix2 SSE Convertible Bond Index Methodology n  Index Code/Index Name Index code：000139 Index name：SSE Convertible Bond Index Index shortened name：SSE Convertible Bond   n  Constituents Selection Ø  Bond type: Convertible bonds listed on SSE market Ø  Outstanding: more than 30 million Yuan   n  Index Calculation 1. Base Point Base Date: 2002-12-31 Base Point: 100. 2. Calculation formula Paasche weighted composite price index formula The bond is weighted by its amount outstanding. Current index=[（current total bond market value）/that of base date]×base point There into: total market value=∑（full price × amount outstanding） 3. Pricing Ø  The index is calculated by bonds actual market price. In case there is no deal, price of the most recent trading day is used.   n  Index Adjustment 1. Adjustment formula Divisor Adjustment Methodology. 2. Cases for Index Adjustment: Ø  Constituents adjustment Ø  Amount outstanding Adjustment— if issued amount of constituent bond changes, the index is adjusted before the change occurs. Ø  After interest payment of constituent bonds, Divisor Adjustment is implemented. n  Index Review Ø  new eligible bonds are added to the index from its first trading day of the next month. Ø  If any constituent bonds are suspended from trading, then they will be removed from the index since the suspension date.   Appendix3 CSI Convertible Bond Index Methodology n  Index code/index name Index code：000832 Index name：CSI Convertible Bond Index Index shortened name：CSI Convertible Bond   n  Constituents selection Ø  Bond type: Convertible bonds listed on SSE or SZSE market Ø  Outstanding: more than 30 million Yuan   n  Index calculation 1. Base point Base date: 2002-12-31,  Base point: 100. 2. Calculation formula Paasche weighted composite price index formula The bond is weighted by its amount outstanding. Current index=[（current total bond market value）/that of base date]×base point There into: total market value=∑（full price × amount outstanding） 3. Pricing Ø  The index is calculated by bonds actual market price. In case there is no deal, price of the most recent trading day is used.   n  Index Adjustment 1. Adjustment formula Divisor Adjustment Methodology. 2. Cases for Index Adjustment: Ø  Constituents adjustment Ø  Amount outstanding Adjustment— if issued amount of constituent bond changes, the index is adjusted before the change occurs. Ø  After interest payment of constituent bonds, Divisor Adjustment is implemented. n  Index Review Ø  new eligible bonds are added to the index from its first trading day of the next month. Ø  If any constituent bonds are suspended from trading, then they will be removed from the index since the suspension date.   Appendix 4   Constituents List Appendix 5    Constituents List

SSE Market Value 100 Index To Be Renamed
20 Aug 2012
SSE and CSI together announced that the SSE Market Value 100 Index will be renamed as SSE Market Value Top 100 Index on Sep 4, 2012. The shortened name will be changed into Market Value Top 100. The index's Chinese full name as well as its Chinese shortened name will also be changed accordingly. The index methodology remains unchanged. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. Aug 20, 2012

Notice of Publicly Soliciting Opinions on "Guidance for Cash Dividend Distribution of SSE-listed Companies (Draft Version)"
16 Aug 2012
All market participants, As one of the most important investor returns, the cash dividend distribution of listed companies not only defines the stocks' values, but also ensures the sound operation of the capital market. The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the "Guidance for Cash Dividend Distribution of SSE-listed Companies (Draft Version)", with a view to implementing the requirements in the "Notice of Further Implementing Relevant Issues of Listed Companies' Cash Dividend Distribution" [Zheng Jian Fa (2012) No. 37] released by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, guiding and standardizing the cash dividend distribution of listed companies, and boosting the sound growth of the securities market. The SSE hereby solicits opinions on the guidance from the public. Please send your opinions or suggestions on the guidance to the SSE in written form or by e-mail before August 30, 2012. Mailing address: The SSE Company Management Department, Shanghai Stock Exchange Building, 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120 Fax: 021-68811782; E-mail: listing@sse.com.cn Shanghai Stock Exchange August 16, 2012

Q&A on Issuance of SSE's Guidance for Cash Dividend Distribution of SSE-listed Companies
16 Aug 2012
Q: Could you introduce to us the background of the issuance of SSE's Guidance for Cash Dividend Distribution of SSE-listed Companies? A: Listed companies' cash dividend distribution is an important way for investors to receive their due returns, a necessary element to attract long-term investment, as well as a cornerstone for the stable operation of the capital market. The significance of listed companies' cash dividend distribution is as follows: Firstly, it contributes to fostering the conception of value investing and popularizing sound equity knowledge. It improves the income structure of investors and turns investors' attention to the dividend distribution level of the listed companies, thus conducive to fostering the conception of value investing and reducing speculation. Furthermore, a constant and stable dividend distribution mechanism helps the investors form a rational expectation of the companies' business prospects. It also strengthens the relativity between a company's stock price fluctuation and its fundamentals, leading investors to have a relatively constant dividend preference, thus popularizing sound equity knowledge. Secondly, it is significant to the attraction of long-term funds into the capital market, which helps to strengthen the market stability. Encouraging cash dividend distribution of SSE-listed companies is instrumental to attract the stock market's investment to long-term funds such as the pension fund, enterprise annuity, insurance and house accumulation fund, all asking for lasting and stable return on investment, as well as increase the market entering scale and investment ratio of the long-term funds. It is also very important to facilitate a stable development of the stock market and avoid the habitual dramatic fluctuation in the stock trading market. Thirdly, cash dividend distribution is indispensible to the reasonable allocation of a company's capital and the protection of investors' benefits. It also reduces the disposable cash flow under the control of the company's internal shareholders, preventing blind investment expansion, and facilitates the reasonable allocation of the company's capital. Meanwhile, the real outflow of a company's cash flow can also help to alleviate the possibility of the company's false performance, thus enhancing the reliability of listed companies' financial figures, protecting the legal rights and interests of investors. It is for such purposes that the SSE issues the "Guidance", aiming to boost the sound development of China's capital market and to ensure that more investors receive their due returns. Q: Please introduce to us the characters of the cash dividend distribution of the SSE-listed companies in recent years. A: These years, SSE-listed companies have seen a constant improvement in their cash dividend distribution mechanism, presenting a promising investment value. Firstly, the cash dividend of the SSE-listed companies has been increasing steadily and even totaled RMB472 billion in 2011. Both the quantity and proportion of listed companies offering cash dividends have been increasing these years. By the end of the year 2011, the listed companies that offer cash dividend for 10 years in a row had reached 129 in number, accounting for 18.5% of all companies that had been listed for over 10 years. In the consecutive years since 2007 to 2011, 12 companies offered cash dividends worth over RMB5 billion and 24 companies enjoyed a dividend-payout ratio over 40% for 5 consecutive years. Secondly, the overall dividend yield ratio is also on a steady rise. In the respective years from 2009 to 2011, the average dividend yield ratio (based on the end-year closing price) of the listed companies sharing their dividends was 0.85%, 0.94% and 1.49%. In 2011, the heavyweight stocks represented by such companies as the Industry and Commercial Bank of China enjoyed a dividend yield ratio exceeding one-year bank deposit interest rate of 3%, among which 52 listed companies' dividend yield ratios exceeded 3% and 14 ones' dividend yield ratios exceeded 5%. Five listed companies' dividend yield ratios even exceeded 3% in 3 consecutive years. However, we have also detected some problems in the dividend distribution practice of the listed companies. Problems mostly lie in the lack of transparency in terms of some companies' dividend expectation, improvements still to be made in the dividend mechanism and a relatively low dividend payment ratio. For example, some companies are not able to provide stable dividends. By the end of 2011, only 347 listed companies had offered cash dividends in 3 consecutive years, accounting for 40% of all the companies that have been listed over 3 years. There is still a long way to go before the SSE-listed companies increase their dividend payment ratios to the level of their counterparts in the more mature markets. For another example, some listed companies simply refuse to share dividends when they are supposed to do so. By the end of 2011, as many as 20 companies that have been listed for over 10 years had never shared dividends. The enterprises in the public utilities and the industry sector, though mature and characterized by stable cash flows, still maintain low levels of dividend distribution. At the same time, we have also noticed that some IPO companies tend to share excessive dividends shortly after being listed, or, trying to cater to the investors, blindly pursuit high proportions of bonus shares or capitalized shares. Thus, further regulation on misfeasance that infringes upon investors' rights and interests is required. Q: What are the SSE's considerations for formulating the "Guidance"? A: The SSE has three considerations for formulating the "Guidance". Firstly, the SSE has considered drawing on the merits from overseas markets. By taking the markets in America and Taiwan as examples, the former has built a system characterized by the dominance of long-term and stable cash dividend distribution as well as the supplementation of unstable shares repurchase and special dividend distribution, with the long-term investment concept featuring the pursuit of stable cash dividend distribution created as well; the "Notice of Perfecting the Dividend Distribution Policy" released in 2000 in Taiwan required that the companies listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange Corporation (TWSE) and the Gre Tai Securities Market (GTSM) should distribute both cash dividends and stock dividends if they have no special reasons. As affected by the above requirement, the proportion of the TWSE/GTSM-listed companies distributing cash dividends to the total soared to 81% in 2009 from 49% in 2000, while the distribution of stock dividends (bonus shares) saw a dramatic drop. For China's emerging and transitional capital market, it needs to make a set of guidance for dividend distribution meeting the actual market conditions by learning from overseas markets, thus perfecting all the supporting systems for cash dividend distribution. Secondly, legal grounds have been taken into consideration. Now, China's laws and regulations related to the dividend distribution policies could be seen in the "Company Law", the "Notice on Amendment in Regulations for Listed Companies' Cash Dividend" and the "Notice of Further Implementing Relevant Issues of Listed Companies' Cash Dividend Distribution" issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the "SSE Stock Listing Rules", and others. Thirdly, the SSE has considered fostering the long-term investment concept. The "Guidance" aims to specify the provisions on cash dividend distribution issued by the CSRC, tighten the listed companies' obligation of disclosing relevant issues of cash dividend distribution, and strengthen the operability of policies related to cash dividend distribution, and relevant decision-making and information disclosure, in a bid to protect the legal rights and interests of investors. Q: Could you tell the main thoughts and contents of the "Guidance"? A: There are three thoughts in the process of formulating the "Guidance". The first is non-mandatory attribute. The "Guidance" aims to advocate the best code of conduct for cash dividend distribution, rather than require mandatory dividend distribution, which meets the requirement put forward by the CSRC. Strictly speaking, the listed companies decide profit distribution by themselves, while the exchanges will not put forward any mandatory requirements to them. Under the backdrop of the emerging and transitional capital market, a lot of urgent problems occur in the dividend distribution of the country's listed companies. Due to the defective internal governance and the weakened external constraint systems, some listed companies even severely neglect the interest of investors. Thus, the primary thought is to guide and encourage the listed companies to make decisions on cash dividend distribution favorable to their shareholders, build the culture of cash return to shareholders, and boost the benign interaction between the culture and the support of investing long-term funds in the market, with an aim of driving the sound development of the Chinese stock market. The second is taking information disclosure as the fundamental. As required by Clause 115 in the "Securities Law", the stock exchanges should supervise over the information disclosure by the listed companies and relevant obligators of information disclosure by urging them to promptly disclose correct information according to laws. As the policies of cash dividend distribution are major elements for investors to decide their investments, the "Guidance", for the purpose of deepening the disclosure of cash dividend policies by the listed companies, requires that the listed companies clearly disclose details about the policies of cash dividend distribution in periodical reports, such as the 4 alternative policies of cash dividend distribution and the issues that should be disclosed under exceptional circumstances. With regard to the frequent avoidance of cash dividend distribution on the excuse of the enterprises' urgent capital needs, the "Guidance" specifies that the companies adopting the residual dividend policy should disclose their decision-making processes. Besides, the companies whose dividend distribution proportions are lower than the average dividend payment rate (30%) in the Shanghai market over the past 3 years should further disclose relevant information. The second thought is to cement the market constraint over the listed companies' decisions on dividend distribution by attaching importance to information disclosure. The third is focusing on the decision-making procedure for cash dividend distribution. Whether the listed companies' decisions on dividend distribution are favorable to investors depends on the compliance of their decision-making procedures. Great randomness exists in the listed companies' decisions on cash dividend distribution in China, especially in those with unstandardized corporate governance. For instance, the companies with their management severely controlled by insiders may be prone to preserving more incomes in themselves, instead of distributing the incomes to their shareholders, so as to control more resources. The listed companies with their shares highly concentrated often make decisions on cash dividend distribution according to their major shareholders' needs, regardless of small and medium sized shareholders. Thus, the third thought is to tighten the standardization of the listed companies' decision-making procedures for cash dividend distribution, and usher in the constraint mechanism for the decisions on cash dividend distribution. For example, if the existing policy of cash dividend distribution fails to be implemented under exceptional circumstances, it should be approved by 2/3 of the voting rights held by the shareholders present at the shareholders' meeting; it is also required that the listed companies which fail to distribute cash dividend or whose dividend distribution proportions are low should provide online voting channels for investors, so as to facilitate the participation of small and medium sized shareholders in the decision-making of cash dividend distribution; it is also specified that independent directors could give opinions on behalf of small and medium sized shareholders while decisions are made. The "Guidance" involves six aspects when it comes to the contents. Firstly, it provides alternative policies of cash dividend distribution and standardizes exceptional circumstances. In addition to implementing the CSRC's requirement of adding the provision of cash dividend distribution to the "Articles of Association", the "Guidance" guides the companies to further specify the policies of cash dividend distribution through information disclosure and add relevant constraint forces. The details are follows: (1) four alternative policies of dividend distribution, namely, the fixed amount policy, the fixed rate policy, the excess dividend policy, and the residual dividend policy, are provided after referring to the dividend policies frequently adopted in the international market; (2) the companies which select the residual dividend policy need to disclose basic information about their future investment projects; (3) if a company fails to distribute profit according to its existing dividend policy under exceptional circumstances, it should disclose reasons and the explicit opinions of independent directors in the annual report. Besides, the issue should be approved by 2/3 of the voting rights held by the shareholders present at the shareholders' meeting. Secondly, it guides to establish the system of the participation by small and medium sized shareholders. The companies, which do not distribute cash dividends or whose cash dividend payment rates are lower than the average (30%), are guided to build communication systems with small and medium sized shareholders. (1) an explanation meeting should be held on site or online or by other ways after disclosing the annual report and before the record date of the annual general meeting, so as to facilitate the communication with small and medium sized shareholders; (2) online voting is required to provide an express channel for the participation of small and medium sized shareholders in decision-making of cash dividend distribution; (3) the voting result should be disclosed according to shareholding proportions and market capitalization amounts. Namely, there are three sections as follows: the shareholding proportion of less than 1%, that between 1% and 5%, and that of more than 5%. With regard to the shareholders whose shareholding proportions are lower than 1%, the voting result of small and medium sized shareholders should be further disclosed in two categories: a single shareholder's shareholding worth more than RMB0.5 million and less that RMB0.5 million. Thirdly, in the "Guidance", policies are made to encourage companies to distribute dividends, which include the following two aspects. On one hand, as for the company whose dividend distribution proportion is not less than 30% and whose dividend yield (the ratio of dividend to net assets) is not lower than three-month deposit rate, special indices will be compiled for a concentrated reflection. On the other hand, as for the company which has a high proportion of dividend distribution (no less than 50%) and a high dividend yield (the ratio of dividend to net assets is not lower than one-year deposit rate), the exchange will give it support or green channels when it conducts re-financing, merger & acquisition and reorganization, and other activities for market entry, and will also give it priority in relevant prize appraisal or assessment. Fourthly, sustained reasonable dividend distribution is advocated. Concerning the phenomenon of catering to investor preferences with stock dividends to avoid cash dividend distribution, the "Guidance" defines the priority of cash dividend over stock dividend among the forms of profit distribution, and specifies comprehensive factors for evaluation of the companies making profit distribution with stock dividends. The exchange not only encourages the listed companies to conduct cash dividend distribution annually but also requires them, especially the newly listed companies and the listed companies having just completed re-financing, to keep sustained and stable policies of cash dividend distribution. Regarding the abnormal cases of cash dividend distribution, the exchange will request intermediaries for supervision and securities regulatory authorities for inspection. Fifthly, the follow-up appraisal will be conducted on dividend distribution. The third parties with professional competence and objective standards are encouraged to evaluate and disclose the annual dividend distribution of listed companies. The SSE will publish the annual research and evaluation reports on cash dividend distribution to actively create an environment for correct understanding of the levels of the listed companies' dividend distribution. Sixthly, apart from cash dividend distribution, other forms are encouraged to be adopted as rewards to shareholders. For example, the listed companies are encouraged to reward investors through stock repurchase with cash. Just like cash dividends, the cash amounts that the listed companies have paid for their stock repurchases before should be consolidated with the cash dividends in profit distribution when calculating relevant proportions, which is applicable to relevant incentive measures.

Q&A on SSE's Reform of Delisting System
07 Aug 2012
On July 27, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) released the "SSE Detailed Rules (Draft Version) for Trading of Shares with Risk Alert" (the Detailed Rules for short), which marked the materialization and institutionalization of the delisting scheme of the SSE and the "SSE Stock Listing Rules". Recently, the SSE made the following remarks on relevant issues including the establishment of the Risk Alert Board in an interview with the press: Q: what is the main purpose of setting up the Risk Alert Board for the new delisting system? A: the prevailing speculation on underperformance shares has harmed the sound development of the capital market, so the SSE proposed to set up the Risk Alert Board while issuing the "Scheme (Draft Version) of Perfecting Delisting System of SSE-listed Companies" (the Scheme for short) on April 29, for the purpose of trading the shares in the companies with delisting risk alert and disclose major risks to investors on the board. On June 28, the SSE officially released the Scheme to conduct necessary trading limits, market monitoring measures, and investor suitability management measures on the Risk Alert Board, as well as carry out strict regulation on the information disclosure of the companies on the board. On July 7, the SSE issued and implemented the "SSE Stock Listing Rules" amended according to the delisting scheme, so as to stipulate that the issues related to the Risk Alert Board is subject to the SSE's further notice. The Detailed Rules issued on July 27 is the materialization and institutionalization of  the delisting scheme of the SSE and the "SSE Stock Listing Rules", with an aim of protecting legal rights and interests of investors, strengthening risk control, and curbing the speculation on underperformance shares. Q: What is the SSE's opinion on the market responses caused by the to-be-implemented asymmetric trading limit system for the Risk Alert Board mentioned in the Detailed Rules? A: the Detailed Rules plans to implement the asymmetric trading limit system for the shares in the companies with delisting risk alert, namely, the maximum trading limit of 1% and the minimum trading limit of 5%, which aimed to curb the speculation on underperformance shares and guide the value regression of the above shares. It was noted that some market participants including investors held different opinions after we publicly solicited opinions. Some held that the system is too strict, while some proposed to implement the symmetrical trading limits and gave detailed suggestions on amendment and perfection. Upon publicly soliciting opinions, the SSE will seriously rationalize all the opinions and advices, conduct full argumentation, and amend and perfect the scheme. Q: When will relevant detailed rules for the Risk Alert Board be officially implemented? The establishment of the Risk Alert Board needs our preparations for relevant businesses and technologies. After the amendment and perfection made according to the opinions from the market and investors, the Detailed Rules will not be implemented promptly as it needs a transitional period. The Detailed Rules is planned to be implemented on January 1, 2013. At that time, the shares in the existing *ST and ST companies with delisting risk alert not revoked yet, and those in the newly-increased companies with delisting risk alert, the companies with delisting collection, the companies whose listing is resumed, the relisted companies, and the companies with other major risks will be all traded on the Risk Alert Board. Q: The Shenzhen Stock Exchange has recently made special arrangements for encouraging listed companies' voluntary delisting. Does the SSE make relevant arrangements, either? A: The SSE's reform in the delisting system is designed to boost the market to give full play to its role. Therefore, the SSE will give encouragement and support to the companies which make a voluntary choice or take an initiative to delist their stocks when they meet or may meet the delisting requirements. The SSE will prioritize the companies meeting relisting requirements through their own efforts or the assets reorganization after having initiatively delisted their shares for relisting upon examination and approval by the SSE Listing Committee with no need for the approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission. The requirements for relisting have been specified in the SSE's listing rules. Q: What special arrangements does the SSE make to implement delisting policies for B-share companies? A: Just as the SZSE does, the SSE ushers in the trading price indicator for the delisting standard in the reform of delisting system, stipulating that A-share and B-share companies shall delist their stocks when the daily closing prices of their stocks are lower than the face value for 20 consecutive trading days. As the B-share market has been inactive for long time with stock prices languishing, some companies with only B shares are prone to meet the delisting requirements according to the information available in hand. Considering the special circumstances in the B-share market, as for the companies with only B shares confronted with delisting for meeting market indicators rather than financial indicators, the SSE encourages them to keep listing by dint of shareholding increase by major shareholders, repurchase, stock reduction, capital reduction and other ways. Besides, the SSE supports B-share companies to introduce domestic institutions as strategic investors for conducting assets reorganization, injecting capital or quality assets, improving the fundamentals, and enhancing their investment values. Moreover, the SSE encourages B-share companies to voluntarily delist their stocks and will arrange their relisting based on historical factors and their demands when they meet the requirements for relisting after voluntary delisting.

Possible Ways for Relisting of B-share Companies
07 Aug 2012
How can B-share companies do to relist their stocks?   It aroused wide concern of market participants and all walks of life that some B-share companies were recently confronted with delisting for meeting non-financial indicators. Concerning such kind of questions, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) successively responded to them through answers to reporters’ request. The two exchanges’ attitude towards the questions was as follows. Firstly, B shares meeting delisting indicators shall be delisted according to law. Secondly, B-share companies are encouraged to keep listing their stocks in a legal way. Thirdly, the B-share companies meeting relisting requirements after voluntary delisting will be arranged for relisting according to historical factors and their demands.   However, the same attitude the two exchanges took caught the public imagination. From yesterday, the relisting of B-share companies kept being discussed and analyzed regarding where to relist, the relisting requirements, how to meet the requirements, how to do stock trading after relisting and other issues.   As for the above questions, Shanghai-based journalists from China Securities Journal, Shanghai Securities News, and Securities Times jointly interviewed some experts in the industry yesterday.   Feasible Alternatives: Issuing Only A Shares or H Shares   “Under the present circumstances, it is feasible that B-share companies delisting their stocks for having met non-financial indicators can only apply for relisting on the A-share market to the exchanges or relist their stocks overseas through issuance of H shares if they basically meet the relisting requirements,” said Senior Economist Lin Caiyi of Guotai Junan Securities Co., Ltd. Lin pointed out it was incorrect that someone held the companies had no choice to relist their stocks on the A-share market after delisting their stocks on the B-share market because there were many legal barriers to change B shares as foreign shares into A shares in the practice. According to Lin, on one hand, the specific historical conditions for the establishment of the B-share market make it impossible for B-share companies to relist their stocks on the B-share market. The B-share market was developed as China lacked of channels for foreign investment at that time and overseas investors had large demands for the shares in domestic companies. Obviously, this factor becomes invalid now. On the other hand, the demands of companies and investors should be taken into consideration. At present, with the inactive stock trading, the shortage in financing functions and the devaluation of stock prices, the companies having voluntarily delisted their stocks on the B-share market are surely unwilling to relist their stocks there, and otherwise they would have not voluntarily delisted their stocks. Besides, B-share investors don’t expect the companies whose shares are held by them to relist on the B-share market, either. Moreover, technically there are no substantial legal barriers for B-share companies to relist on the A-share or H-share market after delisting.   Priority and Privilege Given to Relisting   From the same attitude of the two exchanges towards the requirements and procedures for B-share companies to relist on the A-share market after voluntary delisting, experts estimated that there was a clear tendency to priority and privilege. Li Xunlei, Vice President and Chief Economist of Haitong Securities Company Limited, said that as clearly stated by the two exchanges in the answers to journalists’ questions, B-share companies would be arranged for relisting based on historical factors and their demands. According to Li, the exchanges’ statements revealed the following points. Firstly, B-share companies can directly apply for relisting to the relevant exchange and will relist upon examination and approval by the Listing Committees of the two exchanges with no need for the approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission. Therefore, the procedure for relisting will be simplified. Secondly, as regards historical factors, it may mean that the exchanges will give priority to B-share companies for relisting A shares and the companies not meeting the relisting requirements for financial indicators may apply for exemption. Li summarized that apart from the simplified procedures for relisting, market participants should attach importance to the exchanges’ statements of historical factors which implied priority queue and lowered requirements.   Targeted Capital Increase: A Feasible Way for Assets Restructuring   Lawyer Lu Hongbing, Chief Executive Partner of Grandall Law Firm, said that after voluntary delisting, B-share companies do need to improve their fundamentals and enhance their investment values so that they could re-meet the requirements for listing as mentioned by the exchanges. In the above process, it is necessary to positively conduct assets restructuring, while a feasible way is targeted capital increase. “Like the A-share market, the B-share market could usher in not more than 10 domestic institutions as strategic investors, who could inject quality assets, and RMB or foreign currency funds,” said Lu.   Moreover, concerning foreign shareholders’ trading in the A-share market after B-share companies are relisted on the A-share market, Lu pointed out that the problem could be solved through the QFII mechanism. Actually, the existing A-share companies have a lot of overseas shareholders, so their practices could provide valuable references for the foreign shareholders of relisted B-share companies.   stcn.com: Possible Ways for Relisting of B-share Companies

SSE Releases "Guidelines for Development and Innovation of Fund Products"
06 Aug 2012
With a view to implementing the requirement of Chairman Guo Shuqing for promoting fund management companies to accelerate the transition to modern wealth management institutions and supporting them to develop fund products meeting risk return demands of different investors in a market-oriented and customer-centered approach, the Shanghai Securities Exchange (SSE) has recently published and implemented the "SSE Guidelines for Development and Innovation of Fund Products" after having solicited opinions from fund companies for several times. The guidelines will ease a restriction on the development of only one ETF product for one index. The Guidelines defines basic requirements and procedures for fund companies developing SSE-listed regular and innovative products to encourage and support them in product development and business innovation. Loosening Restriction on Index Products In order to improve the efficiency of using index resources and embody the open and market-oriented principles, the Guidelines will ease the current restriction on the development of only one ETF product for one index. Besides, to avoid decentralized liquidity arising from excessive ETF products for the same index, the SSE will organize industry experts to make a comprehensive assessment on the scheme of fund companies applying for the same index in accordance with the unified deployment of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and the market demand. The Guidelines specifies the assessment criteria that through open and fair competitions, fund companies with rich experience in the operation of index products and adequate preparation for business & technologies will be prioritized for the conferment of license for product development in a bid to promote the orderly competition in the industry and the overall growth of the market scale. Improving Services for Innovation on Fund Products The Guidelines also ushers in an expert assessment mechanism to provide fund companies with consultation and evaluation services for business innovation. According to the Guidelines, the SSE will give support for fund companies' development of innovative products on the basis of the unified and standard procedures and under the overall arrangement of the CSRC. Regarding the market division of labor for innovation on fund products, the SSE aims to improve the services for the innovation on fund products, provide a functionally rich platform for business technologies and an open and fair environment for competition, lift the restrictions on innovative fund business and give full play to the active role of market participants. As for the great innovations in the industry, the SSE will, according to the relevant requirements of the CSRC and the prudent and risk-controllable principles, support certain well-prepared companies to launch a pilot program for them and then make them fully open to the market after the operation is mature. Progress in Appraisal on Fund Products Available Online To enhance the openness of information and improve the transparency of business operation in the market, the SSE will regularly publish and update relevant information on its website, such as application for development of fund products, acceptance of application, issuance of no-dissent letter and use of index resources, so that fund companies are able to timely acquire the information related to the development of fund products. On this basis, the SSE will further develop and enrich the application functions of the column "Funds" on its website for providing fund companies with information support for business development and daily operation. Based on the Guidelines, the SSE will actively collect opinions and suggestions from fund companies and other market participants, further rationalize business procedures, keep enhancing the openness and transparency of services for the development of SSE-listed fund products, improve the services and promote the sound and rapid development of the fund market.

Notice of Sorting Out and Releasing Regulatory Documents on Information Disclosure of Listed Companies
03 Aug 2012
All market participants, In order to improve the openness and transparency of the regulation on information disclosure of listed companies, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) sorts out the regulatory documents on information disclosure of listed companies according to two categories of Business Rules for Regulation on Information Disclosure and Business Guides for Regulation on Information Disclosure. Besides, it formulates, amends or abolishes some normative documents in line with the practical demand. It hereby notifies relevant information and issues. I. Sorting Out Business Rules for Regulation on Information Disclosure The business rules for regulation on information disclosure is in a relatively stable state, mainly involve the provisions on the requirements for regulation on information disclosure as well as the rights and obligations of all parties related to information disclosure, including the rules for information disclosure, election and appointment of directors, management on secretaries to the directorate, filing for independent directors, trainings and other aspects of work in listed companies. After sorting out, a total of 29 business rules (see Attachment I for details of the catalogue) for regulation on information disclosure are left valid; 5 business rules (see Attachment II for details of the catalogue) including the "Letter on Submitting Sponsor Letter for Non-public Shares Issuance as Required" are abolished from the day when this notice is published; a total of 28 business rules (see Attachment III for details of the catalogue) have been abolished. II. Sorting Out Business Guides for Regulation on Information Disclosure The business guides for regulation on information disclosure are to further define or explain the business procedures or operational instructions for relevant regulatory requirements for information disclosure stipulated in the laws and regulations as well as the SSE's business rules. In accordance with the work demand, the business guides are classified into three categories, namely work memos for routine information disclosure which are mainly applicable to application forms for announcements, guidelines for the format of announcements and other daily business, work memos for special information disclosure like memos for assets reorganization, periodical reports and other special issues, and notices for information disclosure which are mainly applicable to temporary affairs or implementation of relevant requirements, such as data statistics and filling in and submitting information. After sorting out, a total of 49 business guides (see Attachment IV for details of the catalogue) for regulation on information disclosure are left valid; 40 business guides (see Attachment V for details of the catalogue) including the "Notice of Unifying Statements by the Board of Directors and the Board of Supervisors in Temporary Announcements of Listed Companies" are abolished from the day when this notice is published; a total of 61 business guides (see Attachment VI for details of the catalogue) have been abolished. III. Releasing Regulatory Documents on Information Disclosure of Listed Companies The SSE releases the catalogues of the changed regulatory documents on information disclosure of listed companies in the media designated by the China Securities Regulatory Commission for information disclosure and its own website (www.sse.com.cn). Moreover, it publishes the full texts of the regulatory documents on information disclosure of listed companies in the SSE Business Rules, the SSE Business Guides and Procedures and other sub-columns under the column of Legal Rules on its website. All this is for the convenience of investors, listed companies and other market participants for search and use. IV. Relevant Requirements Listed companies are obligatory to have a deep understanding of the changed regulatory documents on information disclosure of listed companies, pay attention to some documents formulated, amended or abolished this time, and make earnest efforts on information disclosure. In addition, listed companies ought to observe the provisions related to fulfillment of the obligation of information disclosure in some other existing effective business rules and normative documents of the SSE apart from the regulatory documents listed in this notice. August 3, 2012

SSE Sorts Out and Releases Regulatory Documents on Information Disclosure of Listed Companies for Improving Openness and Transparency
03 Aug 2012
On August 3, 2012, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) publishes the "Notice of Sorting Out and Releasing Regulatory Documents on Information Disclosure of Listed Companies" (the Notice for short) for the full implementation. For a long time, the SSE has performed its duty of self-regulation on information disclosure in accordance with the Securities Law by adhering to the principles of institutionalization and rationalization and attaching importance to the regulation on listed companies for promoting their development, in an effort to facilitate their improvement in information disclosure. An SSE official said that the release of the Notice was an important measure the exchange took to continuously enhance the self-regulation on information disclosure and also an embodiment for the exchange to propel the regulation and publish the overall deployment. The regulatory documents on information disclosure are the standards made by the SSE for the self-regulation on information disclosure. Most of the documents have been released to the public but a fraction of operational and explanatory business guides are only open to listed companies. Based on the previous regulatory work, the SSE launches the current campaign for sorting out the published regulatory documents on information disclosure and making all of them public. It is learnt that the SSE's campaign is attributed to two aspects as follows. On one hand, regulation is integrated into service. The SSE is responsible for the regulation on and the service for listed companies fulfilling their obligations of information disclosure according to law. The exchange's current campaign for clearer and more transparent regulatory standards does embody the concept of integrating regulation into service and promoting regulation with service as it not only brings conveniences for investors, listed companies and other market participants for search and use but also helps listed companies and other relevant obligors for information disclosure to know well about the regulatory standards for information disclosure and to better comply with relevant rules. In the campaign, the SSE has formulated 3 business guides for information disclosure, revised 13 business guides for information disclosure, and abolished 5 business rules for regulation on information disclosure and 40 business guides for regulation on information disclosure. A total of 29 business rules and 49 business guides for regulation on information disclosure are left valid after the change. On basis of the change, the SSE divides the regulatory documents on information disclosure into business rules and business guides for regulation on information disclosure. According to the Notice, the business rules in a relatively stable state mainly refer to the provisions on the basic requirements for regulation on information disclosure as well as the rights and obligations of all parties related to information disclosure, involving information disclosure, election and appointment of directors, management on secretaries to the directorate, filing for independent directors, trainings and other aspects of work in listed companies. The business guides are to further define or explain the business procedures or operational instructions for issues related to information disclosure, which are classified into work memos for routine information disclosure, work memos for special information disclosure and notices for information disclosure according to different contents. On the other hand, supervision is voluntarily accepted. The full openness of the standards for regulation on information disclosure of listed companies is conducive to rationalizing the SSE's self-regulation and enhancing the openness and institutionalization of the regulation on information disclosure. Besides, it enables investors, listed companies and other market participants to have a clear idea of the SSE's regulation on information disclosure and take a positive attitude towards the supervision, thus propelling the exchange to renew its efforts on self-regulation on information disclosure. According to sources, the SSE published the catalogues of the changed regulatory documents on information disclosure in the media designated by the China Securities Regulatory Commission for information disclosure and its own website (www.sse.com.cn) when releasing the Notice. Furthermore, the exchange especially reset the column of Legal Rules on its external website, adding the sub-column of SSE Business Guides and Procedures to the original sub-column SSE Business Rules. In the two sub-columns, the full texts of business rules and business guides for regulation on information disclosure have been respectively published for investors to make a real-time search. The SSE will maintain relevant columns and update them in line with the revision of relevant documents in future. As pointed out by an SSE official, the openness of regulation is helpful for the exchange to enhance the self-regulation, improve the transparency of regulation, build up the public trust in regulation and rationalize the listing. The SSE has formulated and perfected the working plan for the openness of regulation and will carry on with relevant work based on the current release of regulatory standards. What's more, the exchange is drawing up clearer and more reasonable procedures for the regulation on information disclosure of listed companies, in a bid to achieve the openness in the regulatory process and result for information disclosure step by step within the year, enhance the institutionalization and rationalization of the self-regulation, and push forward the sound growth of the securities market.

Notice of Further Reduction in A-share Trading Handling Fee
02 Aug 2012
All market participants, Upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will make another reduction in the A-share trading handling fee, namely from 0.087‰ currently down to 0.0696‰ in a bidirectional way according to the turnover, which shall come into force from September 1, 2012. Shanghai Stock Exchange August 2, 2012

Notice of Soliciting Public Opinions on "SSE Detailed Rules (Draft Version) for Trading of Shares with Risk Alert"
27 Jul 2012
All member units and other market participants, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) plans to set up the Risk Alert Board specifically for the trading of shares in the companies with delisting risk alert and other ones with major risks, with a view to preventing the trading risks of shares in SSE-listed companies, safeguarding the implementation of the delisting system of SSE-listed companies and protecting the legal interests of investors. To this end, the SSE has formulated the "Notice of Soliciting Public Opinions on 'SSE Detailed Rules (Draft Version) for Trading of Shares with Risk Alert'". It hereby solicits opinions on the Rules from the public. Please send your opinions or suggestions on the Rules to the SSE in written form or by e-mail before August 3, 2012. Fax: 021-68809609 E-mail: Trading@sse.com.cn Mailing address: Trading Management Department of Shanghai Stock Exchange, 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120 Shanghai Stock Exchange July 27, 2012

SSE Develops Dividend Indices and Advocates Value Investing
20 Jul 2012
Serial Report (X) on Implementing Scientific Development of Securities Market. With the continuous development of the Chinese capital market in recent years, the supports provided by the stock market for the real economy have been strengthened. A lot of state-owned enterprises have been revitalized after their listing, while numerous private companies have also got precious direct financing channels in the capital market. While developing themselves in the capital market, listed companies should attach importance to giving rational return to investors, so that the latter could share fruits in the development of enterprises, which is a key factor for the sound development and long-term sustainable growth of the capital market. Since 2001, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) has successively worked out relevant regulatory measures, and established and perfected the cash dividend distribution system in according with financing needs, in addition to cementing information disclosure for improving transparency of the cash dividend distribution of listed companies. On May 9, 2012, the CSRC promulgated the "Notice of Further Implementing Relevant Issues for Cash Dividend Distribution of Listed Companies", with an aim of guiding listed companies to perfect the decision-making mechanism of dividend distribution and meet requirements for the information disclosure of dividend distribution. It is also a key content for the construction of the blue chip market of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) to boost the construction the dividend distribution of listed companies and enhance listed companies' capabilities of returning to investors. The SSE will work out relevant polices in the near future to intensify the regulation on information disclosure of cash dividend distribution. The SSE-listed companies' dividend distribution has been improved steadily. Recent years have witnessed a steady improvement in the dividend distribution of the Shanghai stock market as listed companies' continuous dividend distribution abilities, dividend rates, dividend payment rates and others have been on a good track. Statistics from 2004 shows that by the end of 2011, the numbers of the SSE-listed companies distributing cash dividend for 2 and 5 consecutive years or above and 8 consecutive years had reached 388, 246 and 158, respectively. Besides, the above listed companies related to dividend distribution were steady, as 91% of the 364 listed companies distributing cash dividend for 2 consecutive years or above by 2010 still could distribute dividend in next year. Listed companies' dividend rates changed according to the fluctuation of stock prices. The data of 2011 shows that the numbers of the SSE-listed companies with their dividend rates more than 1%, 2% and 3% were 170, 42 and 17, respectively. Over the latest 3 years, all the dividend rates under the weighted total issued shares in the Shanghai market have exceeded 1.6%. In the whole year of 2011, the SSE-listed companies distributed cash dividend of RMB321.3 billion in total to A-share investors, accounting for 84% of the total distributed dividend of A shares. At 2012, they continuously performed the responsibility of dividend distribution. According to the annual reports of 2011, 553 out of the SSE-listed companies put forward cash dividend distribution schemes, with the cash dividend of RMB339.4 billion in total planned to be distributed to A-share investors, accounting for nearly 30% of the A-share-related total net profit of the SSE-listed companies on the very year. The development of dividend indices is a key way to guide listed companies' dividend distribution. Owing to the emerging indexation investment, stock indices have drawn more attention in the market gradually. By taking dividend thematic indices as the carrier, the stocks boasting strong intentions of dividend distribution and high capabilities of dividend distribution have been listed into indices. Moreover, index products such as ETFs have been developed on the basis of dividend indices. All this could encourage listed companies to distribute dividend. Therefore, the development of dividend indices is an effective way for boosting the dividend distribution of listed companies and enhancing the quality of dividend distribution. In the US market, dividend thematic investment has become a major investment strategy, so the investors pay much attention to the listed companies with high dividend distribution. The ETF products rapidly growing in recent years have taken dividend indices as crucial investment targets. According to latest statistics, among the ETFs traded in the US market, the number of the dividend-index-related ETFs has reached 52, with the total managed assets up to USD50 billion. The soaring growth of the dividend-oriented investment products will contribute to propelling the dividend distribution of listed companies. The SSE early attached importance to the role of dividend thematic indices in driving the dividend distribution of listed companies. As early as January 4, 2005, the SSE released SSE Dividend Index, and selected 50 kinds of stocks with high dividend rates, large market capitalization and ample liquidity in the Shanghai market as constituents. Furthermore, the ETF product with SSE Dividend Index as the tracking target was released in 2006 and was taken as the target of margin trading and securities lending in 2011. With the number of the SSE-listed companies distributing dividend increased and the dividend distribution of the SSE-listed companies improved, the conditions for compiling and developing more dividend indices have been met as well. The SSE, by focusing on the construction of the blue chip market and the concept of value investing, plans to continuously develop dividend indices and guide listed companies to perform the responsibility of dividend distribution by market-orient means. Blue chip series and actual controller series dividend indices will be released soon. Upon previous study, the SSE will initially two series of dividend indices. One is SSE Blue Chip Series Dividend Indices, including SSE 180 Dividend Index and SSE 380 Dividend Index. The other is SSE Actual Controller Series Dividend Indices, including SSE State-owned Enterprise Dividend Index, SSE Central State-owned Enterprises Dividend Index, and SSE Private Enterprise Dividend Index. The market structure, characterized by the 3 boards of typical companies with blue chip shares, rising companies with blue chip shares, and promising companies with blue chip shares, has been built by the SSE so far. SSE 180 Index and SSE 380 Index have become the representative indices for the boards of typical companies with blue chip shares and promising companies with blue chip shares, respectively. As the listed companies within the above 3 boards are at different stages with great discrepancies in terms of market capitalization size and industry, their capabilities and characteristics of dividend distribution are considerably different as well. Most of the constituent companies of SSE 180 Index are large blue-chip companies in the traditional industries related to finance, energy, raw material, etc., which could give stable and rich cash return to investors for their stable performance, as well as strong intentions of dividend distribution and good abilities of dividend distribution. Last year, the constituent companies of SSE 180 Index distributed cash dividend of RMB284 billion in total to A-share investors, with the dividend payment rate up to 30%. In contrast, as the constituent companies of SSE 380 Index, as the rising companies with blue chip shares, are growing rapidly with small sizes, their total dividend distribution is low. Nevertheless, some of the constituent companies of SSE 380 Index boast strong capabilities of dividend distribution. With the development of the rising companies with blue chip shares, their capabilities of dividend distribution are expected to be elevated. To select the best of the best, SSE 180 Dividend Index and SSE 380 Dividend Index have set strict conditions for culling constituents. Namely, they both require that the stocks with the average after-tax cash dividend rates in last 2 years up to 1% or above could enter the sample space, in which the top 30 kinds of stocks boast high dividend rates are respectively taken as index constituents. Remarkably, the total dividend distribution of SSE 180 Dividend Index Constituents accounts for 76% of that of the parent index, with the index dividend rate up to 3%, while the dividend rate of SSE 380 Dividend Index also reaches 2.68%. The actual controller series dividend indices depict the features of dividend distribution of listed companies from the perspective of the types of companies' actual controllers. Due to discrepancies in development environments and enterprise sizes, state-owned enterprises and private ones have different features of dividend distribution. In light of the total dividend distribution, the dividend distribution of SSE-listed state-owned enterprises reached RMB293.8 billion, accounting for 92% of the total dividend distribution of SSE-listed enterprises. The central state-owned enterprises listed on the SSE, as a major force in the dividend distribution, boast 82% of the total dividend distribution of all the state-owned enterprises. Although private enterprises have a lower amount of dividend distribution, they have become a dividend source that can not be neglected in the capital market, with the high growth potential. The number of the private enterprises distributing cash dividend in last year reached 106, while some of listed private companies with high dividend rates erected good images in the capital market by positively giving return to their investors. The actual controller series dividend indices are expected to bring about suitable investment targets for the investors that focus on different enterprises' capabilities of dividend distribution, continuously boost the construction of the dividend distribution system of relevant enterprises, and elevate their intentions of dividend distribution. As profit distribution resides in the independent decision-making by listed companies, the SSE consistently encourages the dividend distribution of listed companies by market-oriented means in the process of building the blue chip market. The release of the dividend series indices is one of the major moves of the SSE to elevate the level of list companies' dividend distribution. The listed companies that could be covered by relevant dividend indices, with their good sense of returning to shareholders, will gain recognition from the capital market, which will contribute to getting more supports from the capital market in the future, forming positive feedbacks, and encourage more listed companies to distribute dividend, so as to fuel the sound dividend distribution in the whole market. Relevant dividend indices will provide investors with new investment targets, and fuel the growth of stable-return-oriented index investment products. The SSE will continue to further develop dividend indices, while more dividend indices will turn out with the continuous improvement of the quality of listed companies' dividend distribution.

SSE High Beta and SSE Low Beta Indices to be Launched
13 Jul 2012
Designed to serve as a set of new benchmarks as well as to provide investable underlyings and analysis tools for investors, today SSE and CSI together announced the upcoming launch of SSE High Beta and SSE Low Beta Indices on Aug 6th 2012. Regarding the methodologies and more details about the above indices, please refer to the official website of SSE (www.sse.com.cn) and of CSI (www.csindex.com.cn). SSE CSI Jul 13th 2012

Notice of Publishing "SSE Stock Listing Rules (Amendment in 2012)"
07 Jul 2012
All market participants, With an aim of further rationalizing the delisting system of listed companies, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) published the "Scheme of Perfecting Delisting System of SSE-listed Companies" ("Delisting Scheme") on June 28, 2012. According to the "Delisting Scheme", the SSE amended relevant stipulations in the "SSE Stock Listing Rules (Amendment in 2008)" (original "Listing Rules"). Meanwhile, considering market demands, the SSE also amended relevant contents about trading suspension and resumption in the Chapter 12 of the original "Listing Rules". On the basis, the SSE drew up the "SSE Stock Listing Rules (Amendment in 2012)" (new "Listing Rules"). Upon discussion and approval by the SSE's Board of Governors and report to the China Securities Regulatory Commission for approval, the SSE hereby publishes the new "Listing Rules", which shall come into effect from July 7, 2012 onwards. The original "Listing Rules" shall be abolished at the same time. In a bid to get well-prepared for the transition between old and new rules and ensure the smooth implementation of the new "Listing Rules", the SSE hereby makes the notice for relevant issues as follows. I. Transitional Arrangements for Old and New Rules Related to Delisting (I) As for companies whose share listing has been suspended before the issuance of new "Listing Rules", their listing resumption and termination are subject to original "Listing Rules" and handled according to the following circumstances: (1) For the companies whose share listing was suspended before January 1, 2012, the SSE will grant a grace period to them and make decisions on their listing resumption or listing termination before December 31, 2012. (2) For the companies whose share listing is suspended in 2012, if they push forward the applications for listing resumption within the time limit after the publication of their annual reports of 2012 and the SSE accepts their applications, the SSE will make decisions on their listing resumption or listing termination within 30 trading days after the application acceptance day. As to the companies whom the SSE requires to provide supplementary materials, they shall provide relevant materials in not more than 30 accumulative trading days. The period when the SSE makes relevant decisions will not include that to provide supplementary materials by companies. The SSE will make the decision on terminating the share listing of companies who fail to disclose annual reports of 2012 within the legal time limit. (II) After issuance of the new "Listing Rules", the calculation of three new indicators, namely net assets, business income and audit opinion, will not involve the data in the previous years. It means that the data in listed companies' annual reports of 2012 will be taken as those in the most recent year, while the data in annual reports of 2012 and 2013 as those in the recent two years and so on. (III) After issuance of the new "Listing Rules", newly-increased indicators, namely trading volume and closing prices of shares, will be applicable since the day for the implementation of new rules. (IV) As indicators stipulated in the original "Listing Rules" and continuously used in the new "Listing Rules" will not apply to the principle of "dividing the old from the new", the data of relevant years shall be calculated in a continuous way. (V) If a company whose stock trading is imposed with other special treatments due to dissatisfying the stipulated requirements in the original "Listing Rules" for net profit and audit opinion, its shares trading will continue to be imposed with other special treatments according to the original "Listing Rules" before the issuance of its annual report of 2012. The SSE's risk alert board shall be subject to relevant original business rules, unless otherwise specified. (VI) The risk alert board, the transfer system of delisted companies' shares and the re-listing system stipulated in the new "Listing Rules" will be implemented after the SSE's relevant business rules and technical preparations are completed, with specific time subject to further notice. II. Transitional Arrangements for Old and New Rules Related to Trading Suspension As the trading suspension on the announcement day of abnormal fluctuation of stock prices has been stipulated in No. 4.2.3 Article of the "Trading Rules of the Shanghai Stock Exchange" ("Trading Rules"), the trading suspension on the announcement day of abnormal fluctuation of stock prices will still be subject to the original "Listing Rules" before the corresponding amendment to the "Trading Rules". Other stipulations about trading suspension and resumption in the new "Listing Rules" shall come into force since the publishing day. (Please refer to the full text on the SSE's website www.sse.com.cn) July 7, 2012

SSE Develops Fund Market by Boosting Market Innovation
06 Jul 2012
Serial Report (IX) on Implementing Scientific Development of Securities Market In recent years, the fund market of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has achieved rapid development with the standardized operation, the improved transparency and the rationalized security systems and risk control measures witnessed. As pointed out by Chairman Guo Shuqing of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) at the national meeting for regulation on securities and futures 2012, all the market participants should be encouraged to develop new fund-related products by adhering to the concept of balancing innovation and regulation. Answering the CSRC's call actively, the SSE continues to boost the innovation in the fund market, optimize the trading mechanism, improve the services and advance the sound development of the market, in an effort to build the fund market into a hub radiating to and connecting the stock market, the bond market and the derivatives market. This year, the SSE's first cross-market exchanged traded fund (ETF) was listed, with the cross-border ETF approved as well. The SSE propels the product innovation and improves the efficiency and quality of services. In May 2012, the SSE succeeded in developing SHSE-SZSE300 ETF. As the first cross-market ETF, SHSE-SZSE300 ETF is a strategic product of the SSE. The launch of the product is an important move for the SSE to promote the construction of the blue chip market, and advocate and guide rational investment, value investing and long-term investment, which is of great significance to increase the income from long-term investment, improve the market efficiency, and rationalize the structure and functions of the capital market. The cross-border ETF has been approved recently. The product, which can well reflect risk-return characteristics of the securities markets in other countries and regions, and boosts such exceptional advantages as low cost, high-level transparency, investment diversification and good liquidity, is an important exchange-traded instrument for investors of all the countries to allocate global assets. The introduction of the cross-border ETF is a critical, convenient and sound move for the internationalization of the Chinese capital market. Besides, the SSE is studying currencies, bonds, gold ETFs and other innovative products. In addition to developing diversified fund-based spot products, it is studying the establishment of the SSE LOF platform to introduce graded funds to be listed and traded on the SSE in future. Moreover, it will launch the fund repo trading sometime to improve the liquidity of the fund market. According to the features of trading and the types of investors, the SSE divides the fund and fund-related product markets into public ones and special ones. Public markets mainly include the spot market and the repo market based on auction trading and a wide range of investors. In the special markets, product chains are expanded on the basis of the spot market to satisfy the demands of different investors and construct the on-floor fund derivatives market and the innovation market. In order to better support the business innovation of fund companies, answer the CSRC's call for promoting information disclosure and enhance the requirement of transparency for regulation, the SSE standardizes and simplifies the procedures for the innovation on fund products. It changes the current practice of only one ETF product for one index so that an index will be available for multiple fund companies to develop multiple products. Thus, it breaks through the existing bottleneck in the development of ETF products by following the unified deployment and the issuance schedule of the CSRC in line with the market rules. The SSE encourages fund companies to compete fairly in accordance with the principles of openness and transparency. The SSE is about to release the "Product Innovation and Service Guidance" after having conducted several market surveys, taken the initiative to hold the seminar on the development and innovation of the fund market, and solicited the opinions from market participants. The SSE has formulated and is about to publish the "Guideline for Fund Business". The guideline specifies the services and relevant procedures for fund management companies developing innovative products, and standardizes the procedures for the issuance and listing of fund products. It provides fund managers with explicit guidance for the listing and issuance of funds, and helps to improve their work efficiency and service quality. The SSE rationalizes the trading mechanism and improves the market-related supporting measures. The SSE exerts itself to rationalize and innovate on the trading mechanism while pushing forward the innovation on trading products. In May 2012, the SSE, based on the existing experience of liquidity services at home and abroad, formulated and published the "Business Guideline for ETF Liquidity Services", in which the system of liquidity service provider was introduced. The guideline explicitly stipulates the basic requirements securities companies should meet and the basic obligations they should undertake for offering liquidity services. It also states that securities companies with qualifications for ETF brokers are allowed to apply for providing services for one or more fund products on a fair and voluntary basis. At present, ten securities companies have applied for providing liquidity services for the listed SHSE-SZSE300 ETF. With a view to improving the market liquidity and giving play to the function of SHSE-SZSE300 ETF in underlying assets allocation and its diversified market applications, the SSE published the "Notice of Taking ETFs as Underlying Securities of Margin Trading and Securities Lending" in May 2012, in which SHSE-SZSE300 ETF was included in the underlying securities of margin trading and securities lending in advance. As seen from the market performance after that, SHSE-SZSE300 was very active in margin trading and securities lending, and the liquidity and the pricing efficiency of the underlying ETF was remarkably improved as well. The accumulative turnover of SHSE-SZSE300 amounted to RMB3.5 billion in the first week while the average daily turnover reached RMB696 million, exceeding that (RMB410 million) of SSE50 ETF and that (RMB360 million) of SZSE100 ETF, and topping among those of ETFs on the SSE and the SZSE. After ETF being included in the underlying securities of margin trading and securities lending, its pricing efficiency was greatly improved. The weighted average discount premium rate was -0.15% in the first week, down by 40% compared with -0.25% one week before the move. Furthermore, the SSE is coordinating with the CSRC to realize "T+0" intraday trading on the ETF secondary market. The system of ETF intraday trading is a basic trading system of ETF in a mature market. In practice, the intraday trading is conducive to activating the market, improving the market pricing efficiency, and providing investors with flexible and convenient investment methods and trading modes. The SSE improves the operation procedures and takes active measures to prevent market risks. Since last November, under the leadership of the CSRC and on the basis of strengthened education and publicity for ETF operational risks, the SSE has defined the relevant operational procedures and taken active measures to prevent ETF operational risks by adhering to the market and service oriented principle and focusing on the innovation on products and services, which has effectively improved the operating environment of the ETF market and enhanced the efficiency of management and operation on ETFs at the convenience of fund managers. Firstly, the SSE actively organized and deployed the optimization of the ETF technical system and the relevant procedures. At the end of 2011, the SSE upgraded the ETF technical systems of all the ETF managers, which further reduced the operational risks of fund companies and substantially improved the safe operation of ETFs. The existing technical supports of the SSE for ETFs are as strong as those of the exchanges at home and abroad. Secondly, the SSE released the "SSE Business Guidelines for Management on Operational Risks of ETF Management Companies". It gave guidance for the management and operation personnel, internal technical systems, external technical interface specifications, supporting systems and other issues related to ETF business of fund management companies, helping these companies to know about the SSE's relevant technical specifications and enhance their abilities of management on ETF business risks. Thirdly, the SSE developed the procedures for checking a package of lists for ETF subscription and redemption. Each day the SSE assigns some persons specially for checking the uploading of the ETF lists from fund managers and timely discovering the omissions of the uploaded ETF lists to effectively prevent the market risks arising from the errors in the lists. According to the staff of the SSE Fund Business Department, the SSE plans to launch some optimization measures in succession in the near future, including the optimization of ETF shares merger procedure, ETF package list uploading and ETF online multi-day issuance as well as the perfection of ETF "securities supplementation" mechanism. According to sources, the above optimization measures of the SSE have gained widespread popularity among ETF managers. After over a decade years' development, the Chinese fund industry has made remarkable achievements and become a strong force in the capital market. However, the fund industry still has a long way to go to meet the requirements for serving the development of the national economy and the capital market and to satisfy citizens' demands for wealth management. As the fund industry stepped into the thousand-fund era recently, the fund association of China with the mission of reinforcing industry self-regulation and promoting industry reform and innovation was founded, marking a new historical opportunity for the development of the industry. What's more, many factors currently favorable to the innovation and development of the fund industry are emerging. For example, the CSRC coordinates with the legislature in accelerating the amendment to the "Securities Investment Fund Law", expands business scope of fund companies and investment objects of funds, eases restrictions on investment operation, and rationalizes internal incentive mechanisms of fund companies, in a bid to create a favorable legal environment for the development of the industry. Besides, large amounts of bank saving assets and increasing demands of citizens for wealth management in the background of loosened monetary policies make enormous capital reserve available for the development of the industry. In addition, as the investment philosophy in the capital market becomes increasingly mature and the concept of value investing and rational investment wins popular support, more and more investors, who become a basic part for the industry's development, expect to get returns from the capital market by dint of professional investment management. Under such circumstances, the SSE will seize the historical opportunity for reinforced innovation and improved services to propel the sound and stable development of the SSE fund market.

3rd SSE-HKEx Index and Product Development Forum Rounded off
05 Jul 2012
The 3rd SSE-HKEx Index and Product Development Forum, jointly sponsored by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (HKEx), was held in Shanghai on June 29. As a fundamental part of the financial cooperation between Shanghai and Hong Kong, the two exchanges' cooperation has been considerably supported by the CPC Shanghai Municipal Committee and the Shanghai Municipal Government, the Hong Kong SAR Government and the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). The annual SSE-HKEx cooperation Forum has become a key platform for the two exchanges' cooperation. The 1st and 2nd SSE-HKEx Forums have been successively held in Shanghai and Hong Kong. The 3rd SSE-HKEx Forum, themed "Design of Cross-border and Cross-market Products also Relevant Practices", has gained a lot of supports from all sides. Attending the event were more than 100 representatives from the SSE, the HKEx, fund companies, securities companies, index institutions, investment institutions and other domestic exchanges. After delivering a speech at the forum, SSE Vice President Xie Wei introduced the SSE's development and its latest cooperation with the HKEx. Besides, Xie expected further exchange and cooperation between the two exchanges in terms of product, technology, information and personnel. The success of the 3rd SSE-HKEx Forum will contribute to deepening and strengthening the cooperation of both sides in all aspects.

SSE Initiates Mentor System for Growth of MSMEs
05 Jul 2012
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has launched a program of serving micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs). The SSE held a symposium on corporate governance of private enterprises and services for MSMEs yesterday. At the symposium, SSE President Zhang Yujun said that the SSE had recently formulated the "SSE Outline of Services for Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises" based on a wide-ranging survey for the purpose of giving play to its advantages and taking effective measures to serve the real economy and the development of MSMEs. According to the outline, the SSE establishes a mentor system for the growth of MSMEs. It sets up a mentor group comprised of the selected entrepreneurs with social influences and senses of social responsibility from listed companies, which provides MSMEs with consultation services for technologies, systems and management as well as personnel training and other services. Thus, a platform for the communication between listed companies and MSMEs takes shape. It is innovative for the SSE to establish the mentor system. According to sources, the SSE initiatively selected Chairmen or Presidents from 32 private listed companies to serve as mentors for the growth of MSMEs. At the symposium yesterday, the SSE held a ceremony for the appointment of 32 mentors. Relying on the mentor group, the SSE will build a team of experts and hold lectures, forums and other activities to offer startups consulting, legal aid and other training services for MSMEs. Besides, it will launch the program of one-to-one support from mentors to MSMEs. As stated in the outline, the SSE will work out some measures to elevate the proportion of direct financing for MSMEs. To be specific, the SSE will simplify the procedures for approval of MSMEs' direct financing and elevate the proportion of direct financing for them. Secondly, it will give support to MSMEs for their issuance of private placement bonds. Thirdly, it will guide the venture capital investments and private equity funds for the investment in MSMEs. Fourthly, it will coordinate with relevant authorities to promote the construction of an over-the-counter market with unified regulation and provide micro and small enterprises not meeting the listing requirements with the services of resource distribution in the capital market. Fifthly, it will join hands with all related parties for propelling MSMEs to implement the shareholding reform and finance in the capital market. Meanwhile, the SSE plans to improve the special section for pre-IPO enterprises on the external website. Besides, it will set up a special section for MSMEs, in which relevant contents in line with the characteristics of MSMEs will be increased to satisfy MSMEs' demands for more information about financing channels in the capital market. Furthermore, the SSE will make more efforts on the survey on MSMEs, regularly release relevant research reports, timely analyze the development trend of MSMEs, and continuously improve the pertinence and effectiveness of measures for solving the financing problems of MSMEs. Zhang Yujun pointed out that serving MSMEs was of great importance to the development of the SSE's markets. At present, the SSE has established a multi-tiered blue chip market system centered with blue chip shares in promising, rising and typical companies. As the Chinese economy is at the critical stage of structural adjustment, development mode transition and steady growth, the SSE is confronted with an important task about how to better support the development of the real economy. Having devoted itself to pushing forward the transition and listing of large state-owned enterprises in the decade before 2010, the SSE now faces a most important task, that is, to further promote listed companies' restructuring, improve their quality, advance the diversification of their structures and encourage small and medium-sized enterprises, rising enterprises and enterprises in the industries with products in short supply, the industries related to the people's livelihood, the cultural and creative industry, the education and media industry, the agricultural and food industry and the modern service industry for listing on the SSE. The SSE will offer services for both traditional large and medium-sized enterprises and MSMEs, and encourage more small and medium-sized enterprises to enter the SSE markets. Zhang said that it was a try and innovation for the SSE to set up the mentor system for the growth of MSMEs based on the actual conditions of the Chinese capital market to better serve MSMEs. Small and medium-sized enterprises play a prominent role in the Chinese economic development and transition. Therefore, it is of strategic significance to boost the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises for the sound and sustainable development of the national economy. Data shows that there are over ten million small and medium-sized enterprises in China, accounting for 99% of all the Chinese enterprises. Their contributions to tax revenue, GDP, national self-independent innovation and employment account for 50%, 60%, 70% and 80% of the total respectively, which indicates their crucial role in the national economy. In April 2012, the State Council issued the opinions on further supporting the sound development of MSMEs in particular. The China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) also took it as a strategic move to serve MSMEs for better supporting the national economic development, which worked together with relevant national authorities to successively issue many measures for the development of MSMEs. For example, the private placement of bonds for SMEs recently is an important move for the SSE to serve MSMEs. According to Zhang, the SMEs private placement bonds go on well on the SSE up to now. As of July 4, the SSE has accepted the filing applications of 25 MSMEs for private placement bonds and approved the filing of 21 MSMEs for the bond issuance. A total of 11 enterprises have issued the private placement bonds while another one is supplementing materials, one being examined and two refused. These MSMEs cover Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai, Zhejiang, Jiangsu and Hubei, with the total amount for filing up to RMB1,935 million. Among 21 enterprises whose issuance were approved, 11 enterprises are high-tech ones. At the end, Zhang emphasized that the SSE, as an organizer of the markets, would follow the established scheme and provide MSMEs with good platforms for financing and information services in terms of the stock market, the bond market and the corporate governance. Moreover, it will renew its efforts to mobilize the market participants, including relevant authorities of local governments and intermediaries, to provide MSMEs with good services for their restructuring, financing and management. As said by SSE Vice President Huang Hongyuan at the symposium yesterday, the SSE had paid attention to private enterprises especially MSMEs which encountered increasing cost, heavy taxes and difficulty in financing with the influence of the complicated and changeable economic situation at home and abroad. To support the growth of MSMEs and help them with reinforced rationalization is an objective requirement for establishing and improving the SSE multi-tiered blue chip market. It is a move by the SSE to establish the mentor system for the growth of MSMEs based on a wide-ranging survey in a bid to expand the coverage of the SSE capital market to MSMEs and better serve the real economy. Actually, some listed companies take the initiative to help MSMEs, some of which have benefited a lot. At the symposium held yesterday, Board Chairman Chen Qiyu of Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical (Group) Co., Ltd. mentioned Fosun's ways of supporting MSMEs as follows. Firstly, Fosun establishes business relationships with MSMEs. Secondly, Fosun directly establishes MSMEs. Thirdly, Fosun develops those similar to the Private Equity business. Fosun summarized that the supports provided by large enterprises for MSMEs could not only lower their financing costs and elevate their competitive forces, but also improve their corporate governance and enhance their capabilities in risk control and other aspects. After highly acknowledging the SSE's assistance to MSMEs, the private enterprises present at the symposium expressed that the sound development of MSMEs is of great significance to the long-term growth of the Chinese economy and the Chinese capital market. Board Chairman Zheng Yonggang of Shanshan Investment Holding Co., Ltd. said that as the experience of large enterprises is helpful for startup-oriented MSMEs, the large enterprises should take on the responsibility of boosting the development of these MSMEs. Board Chairman Zhang Hongwei of Orient Group Incorporation, in addition to expecting the SSE's launch of specific measures, suggested that efforts should be made to support MSMEs in light of different industry chains, rather than arrange "marriages" for large enterprises and MSMEs.

SSE Outline of Service for MSMEs
05 Jul 2012
Recently, the State Council released the "Opinions on Further Facilitating Sound Growth of Micro and Small Enterprises" (hereinafter shortened to the "Opinions"), in a bid to make strategic deployment for better development of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs). By giving full play to its advantages as an organizer and a front-line regulator in the capital market, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), according to the actual development of the capital market and MSMEs, hereby formulates the "SSE Outline of Service for MSMEs" upon overall consideration, with an aim of fully implementing those mentioned in the "Opinions", encouraging the capital market's services for the real economy, and boosting a harmonious relation between the development of the capital market and that of the real economy. I. The strategic deployment for the capital market's services for the real economy should be carried out to fuel the sound growth of MSMEs. 1. Strategically, to drive the sound development of MSMEs is of great significance for the national economy. Besides, to provide good services for MSMEs is not only a key factor for maintaining the long-term vitality of the Chinese market-oriented economy, but also a major task for the blue chip market's services for the real economy. 2. To drive the sound development of MSMEs is also a fundamental part for the construction of the SSE blue chip market. Namely, the construction and perfection of the SSE multi-tiered blue chip market calls for the efforts to support MSMEs and assist them in their reinforced rationalization through the capital market. 3. To drive the sound development of MSMEs will bring about good social benefit, as MSMEs play an irreplaceable role in increasing employment opportunities, boosting hi-tech innovation, and facilitating the social harmony. Thus, all the resources should be coordinated to provide pertinent services for MSMEs, which could give full play to the SSE's crucial role in the market. II. The Mentor System for Growth of MSMEs should be built to offer consultation for management and other services to MSMEs. 4. The mentor group should be set up. The SSE Mentor Group for Growth of MSMEs will be comprised of the entrepreneurs with social influences and senses of social responsibility selected from listed private companies. 5. The management should be improved. The SSE will build an expert team on the basis of the mentors and hold lectures, forums and other activities regularly and irregularly, in an effort to provide MSMEs with startups consulting, legal aid, corporate governance, technology and management consulting, and other services. 6. The pair services should be provided. Namely, the SSE will launch the program of one-to-one support from mentors to MSMEs, so that the mentors' theories and practical experience will contribute to providing individualized guidance for the growth of MSMEs. 7. The corporate financing structure should be perfected. Relying on the mentors, the SSE will guide MSMEs to improve corporate financing structures and optimize corporate financial conditions by rationalizing the debt financing and equity financing. 8. The exchange platform should be erected. Efforts should be made to organize the mentors, hold forums on the development of MSMEs, and build the platform for the cooperation and exchange of MSMEs. Besides, the SSE will cement the multi-lateral cooperation and dialogue mechanism with governments, intermediaries, medium-sized and large listed companies, and MSMEs. III. Effective measures should be taken to solve the problems about the financing of MSMEs. 9. The proportion of direct financing for MSMEs should be elevated upon study. As guided by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the SSE will investigate the needs of MSMEs for direct financing, study the measures on supporting the direct financing of MSMEs, simplify the procedures for approval of MSMEs' direct financing, and elevate the proportion of direct financing for them. 10. The SSE should give support to MSMEs for their issuance of private placement bonds. Namely, the SSE will boost the construction of the multi-tiered bond market, give full play to the bond market's role in providing capital support for MSMEs, develop the bond products suitable for different development stages of MSMEs, and support MSMEs for their issuance of private placement bonds. 11. The SSE should guide the venture capital investments and private equity funds for the investment in MSMEs. Namely, the SSE, by cooperating with venture capital investments and private equity funds, will guide them for the investment in MSMEs, so as to solve the financing of MSMEs at initial stages. 12. The construction of an over-the-counter market with unified regulation should be fueled. Namely, the SSE will coordinate with relevant authorities to boost the construction of an over-the-counter market with unified regulation and provide micro and small enterprises not meeting the listing requirements with the services of resource distribution in the capital market. 13. Pains should be taken to propel MSMEs to implement the shareholding reform. The SSE will join hands with governmental authorities, chambers of commerce, trade associations, intermediaries, and others for propelling MSMEs to consummate the corporate governance structure, implement the shareholding reform, and finance in the capital market. 14. The SSE should strengthen the information services for MSMEs. Namely, it will improve the special section for pre-IPO enterprises on the external website, set up a special section for MSMEs, in which relevant contents in line with the characteristics of MSMEs will be increased to satisfy MSMEs' demands for more information about financing channels in the capital market. 15. The survey on MSMEs should be made. Specifically, the SSE will make more efforts on the survey on MSMEs, regularly release relevant research reports, timely analyze the development trend of MSMEs, and continuously improve the pertinence and effectiveness of measures for solving the financing problems of MSMEs. IV. Endeavors should be made to intensify coordination for building a good environment for the sound development of MSMEs. 16. The MSME-oriented policies and measures should be carried out. Namely, the SSE, by coordinating with local governments, will seriously implement the MSME-oriented policies and improve the services for MSMEs in terms of finance, circulation, management, public service, and others. 17. The management of MSMEs should be elevated. The SSE should study the best modes for the corporate governance and internal control of MSMEs in light of the actual conditions of the country and MSMEs. 18. Finally, the SSE should cement the publicity of the services for MSMEs. That is, it will do a good job in publicizing the services for MSMEs. Besides, it will encourage listed companies to support MSMEs as far as possible, and commend the advanced ones among them.

SSE Holds Training Class for Guiding Rational Investment in Fujian
04 Jul 2012
Recently, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the Fujian Securities Regulatory Bureau (FSRB) jointly held a special training class for guiding rational investment, with a view to intensifying the investor education and protection and strengthening investors' abilities of rational participation in investments. Among those present at the training class were heads of business departments from nearly 200 securities companies as well as relevant officials from the FSRB and the SSE who delivered speeches respectively. According to an SSE official, the investor education and protection is related to both the vital interests of investors and the integrity and image of securities companies. The SSE takes it as an important move to hold the special training classes for guiding rational investment with the CSRC's branches in various areas for the purpose of implementing the CSRC's work instruction on reinforcing the publicity of investor protection in the recent period. The SSE will renew its efforts on the training program to guide investors for rational investment and implement the investor suitability management. As stated by an official of the FSRB, the sound development of the capital market calls for fair and transparent operating mechanisms, and especially mature and rational investors. The investor education and protection is not only a daily task of securities companies but also a social responsibility and obligation they should undertake. He hoped that the training enabled heads of business departments to understand the importance of guidance for rational investment and value investing and to improve their services for the investor education and protection.

SSE Boosts Construction of Blue Chip Market by Building Multi-tiered Blue Chip Market Index System
03 Jul 2012
With the official release of SSE 100 and 150 Indices in April this year, the blue chip market index system of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has been gradually improved and the construction of the system's main structure has been completed on the whole upon 10-year unremitting efforts from 2002 to 2012. The SSE's multi-tiered blue chip market structure, with the priority given to the growth of typical companies with blue chip shares, rising companies with blue chip shares and promising companies with blue chip shares, has been further defined as follows: the board of the typical companies with blue chip shares become the backbone, that of the rising companies with blue chip shares come to the stage and that of the promising companies with blue chip shares begin to take shape. The SSE will further deepen the construction of the multi-tiered blue chip market index system in the future. By continuously focusing on the development goal of the multi-tiered blue chip market, the SSE will perfect the blue chip market index system in the aspects such as dividend distribution and industrial clustering, promote listed companies' dividend distribution, foster emerging industries, help the enterprises with various scales for their listing and financing and facilitate the functions of the capital market in the development and transformation of China's economy. Fostering the stabilizer of the capital market — the board of the typical companies with blue chip shares become the backbone As the fundamental work for the construction of the SSE's blue chip market, the SSE constantly promotes the construction of the blue chip market index system. In a bid to define the market structure of the board of the typical companies with blue chip shares, the SSE launched the SSE 180 Index on July 1, 2002 and the SSE 50 Index at the beginning of 2004, both of them becoming the main indices of the board of the typical companies with blue chip shares. The release of the two indices elevated the market influence of the board of typical companies with blue chip shares in addition to attracting more large-scale enterprises to go public at the SSE. With the listing of large and oversize enterprises including Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited and China Shenhua Energy Company Limited in succession after 2006, the pillar industries in the national economy such as financial and energy industries gradually played a leading role in the board of the typical companies with blue chip shares. As the SSE 180 Index constituents almost cover all large quality enterprises on the Shanghai market, the representative index of the board of the typical companies with blue chip shares has been increasingly accepted by the public. In return, last year, the SSE 180 index constituent companies totally distributed cash dividend of RMB284 billion to investors of A shares, with the dividend amount of A shares accounting for 89% of that of SSE-listed companies and the proportion of dividend payment up to 30%. Accelerating the economic transformation — the board of the rising companies with blue chip shares come to the stage While promoting the listing of mature enterprises, the SSE had early been committed to the construction of the multi-tiered stock market after realizing the development limitations of the traditional industries and the resource bottlenecks in the listing of large enterprises. Even from 2000 to 2008 when large traditional enterprises were listed, the SSE didn't weaken the services for SMEs and enterprises in emerging industries. Among the enterprises listed at the SSE from 2000 to 2008, those with IPO shares less than 80 million shares account for 70%, including quality enterprises in the areas related to IT, new energy, new material, etc. On October 10, 2010, after making the decision on accelerating the cultivation and development of strategic emerging industries, the State Council upgraded this decision to be a great strategic task in the economic and social development in the new period and defined the significance of cultivation and development of strategic emerging industries to China's construction of modernization. In a bid to boost economic transformation and support change of China's economic growth mode, the SSE officially launched the SSE 380 Index in November that year, taking it as the representative index for the board of the rising companies with blue chip shares in the Shanghai market. In 2012, the SSE also launched the SSE 100 Index, with an aim of further highlighting the core investment shares on the board of the rising companies with blue chip shares. Different from the board of the typical companies with blue chip shares represented by the SSE 180 Index, most of the rising companies with blue chip shares are those in such emerging industries as pharmacy, biotechnology, high-end equipment manufacturing and new-generation IT as well as the industries like consumption and service ones benefiting from the expanded domestic demands and the transformation of the economic development mode, with the weight up to 40%. Most companies in these industries are growing rapidly. Supporting the development of the companies with small and mid-cap stocks — the board of the promising companies with blue chip shares begin to take shape The companies with small and mid-cap stocks and private enterprises are important forces for job enlargement. However, small and mid-sized companies are facing future development bottlenecks due to financing problems. Concerning the problems faced by small and mid-sized companies and private enterprises in their development, the SSE dispatched its staff to the grass roots for research on the enterprises' demands and strengthened the cultivation of to-be-listed companies. Concerning the listed companies, apart from the boards of the typical companies and rising companies with blue chip shares, a batch of small and mid-sized listed companies with great potentials formed the board of the promising companies with blue chip shares. The SSE also compiled the indices reflecting the board of the promising companies with blue chip shares. In April this year, the SSE released the SSE 150 Index and positioned it as the core investment index for the board of the promising companies with blue chip shares. Compared with the boards of the typical companies and rising companies with blue chip shares, the constituents of the board of the promising companies with blue chip shares, highlighted by more fluctuant operation, active stock trading and distinct SMEs' features, have less market values. In addition to reflecting the SSE's focus on the development of SMEs, the release of the SSE 150 Index is another innovation of the SSE for exploring the market service modes, strengthening support for the companies with small and mid-cap stocks and further perfecting the blue chip market system. At the next stage, the SSE will further attract more companies with small and mid-cap stocks to go public and continuously develop the representative index for the board of the promising companies with blue chip shares. The number of the listed companies on the board of the promising companies with blue chip shares is less than 300 at present. As more and more small and mid-sized companies choose to go public at the SSE, the number of the listed companies on the board of the promising companies with blue chip shares will be increased to some extent. Then, the SSE, according to qualified constituents, will compile and release the SSE 580 Index, which will become the benchmark index for the board of the promising companies with blue chip shares. The perfection of the multi-tiered blue chip market index system After the 10-year development, the SSE's multi-tiered blue chip market index system has been gradually perfected. The blue chip market index system being planned by the SSE includes two series, namely, the SSE benchmark index series consisting of SSE 180, 380 and planned-to-be-issued 580 Indices, as well as the SSE core investment index series made up of SSE 50, 100 and 150 Indices In terms of the scales of index constituents, the distribution of the market values for the three boards of the typical companies, rising companies and promising companies with blue chip shares boasts distinctive levels. According to statistics, the board of the typical companies with blue chip shares represented by the SSE 180 Index is characterized by huge market values, with most constituents' market values up to over RMB10 billion and the average market value up to RMB66.5 billion; the board of the rising companies with blue chip shares represented by the SSE 380 Index features small and mid-cap stocks, with most market values less than RMB10 billion and the average market value down to RMB7.2 billion; compared with the above two boards, the market values of the board of the promising companies with blue chip shares further drop. The above three boards have distinctive valuation levels. Due to the mature development and low valuation of the typical companies with blue chip shares, the price-earnings ratio of the SSE 180 Index comes to about 11; the price-earnings ratio of the SSE 380 Index reaches about 23 due to higher valuation, which reflects the growth of the board of the rising companies with blue chip shares; taking the companies with small and mid-cap stocks as constituents, the SSE 150 Index boasts the price-earnings ratio soaring to about 39 because of the high potential returns and considerably fluctuant performances of these companies. Different industrial features of the three boards could be seen thorough the industry distribution of index constituents. Traditional industries related to finance, energy, raw materials and others dominate in the board of the typical companies with blue chip shares, while the boards of the rising companies and promising companies with blue chip shares mainly involve emerging industries related to pharmacy, biotechnology, high-end equipment manufacturing, new-generation IT as well as food and beverage, or the listed companies benefiting from consumption upgrading. In the future, the SSE will serve the financing needs of the enterprises with different sizes and at different development stages by continuously giving full play to the reflection of the blue chip market index system. Meanwhile, the SSE will devote itself to building the blue chip market index system into a channel of communication so as to help all market participants better understand the multi-tiered structure of the capital market of Shanghai and drive the listing of the companies with small and mid-cap stocks at the SSE.

SSE 180 Dividend Index and SSE 380 Dividend Index Methodology
28 Jun 2012
SSE 180 Dividend Index and SSE 380 Dividend Index Methodology   1. Index Name and Code Index Code Index Name 000149 SSE 180 Dividend Index 000150 SSE 380 Dividend Index 2. Base Date and Base Value The base date of the SSE 180 Dividend Index and SSE 380 Dividend Index is Dec 31, 2004, and the base value is 1000 for both indices. 3. Constituents Selection Method 3.1 SSE 180 Dividend Index 1) Index Universe   The index universe of the SSE 180 Dividend Index is composed of all Shanghai A shares that meet the following requirements: n  SSE 180 Index constituents n  Continuously paid cash dividends in the past two years n  The after-tax dividend yield in each year is higher than 0, and the average after-tax dividend yield of the past two years is greater than 1%. 2) Constituents Selection Method Rank the stocks in the index universe by average after-tax dividend yield for the past two years and select the top 30 stocks. 3.2 SSE 380 Dividend Index 1) Index Universe   The index universe of the SSE 380 Dividend Index is composed of all Shanghai A shares that meet the following requirements: n  SSE 380 Index constituents n  Continuously paid cash dividends in the past two years n  The after-tax dividend yield in each year is higher than 0, and the average after-tax dividend yield of the past two years is greater than 1%. 2) Constituents Selection Method Rank the stocks in the index universe by average after-tax cash dividend yield for the past two years and select the top 30 stocks. 4. Index Calculation and Index Maintenance The formula is: Current index=Σ(Price×Free Float Shares×Dividend Yield Factor)/Base Period×1000. Here, dividend yield factor=dividend yield/(Price×Free Float Number of Shares). 5. Constituents Adjustments The SSE 180 Dividend Index and the SSE 380 Dividend Index are reviewed every six months in accordance with the constituents adjustments of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 380 Index, respectively. The number of constituents adjusted at each periodical review will not exceed 20%. At the end of the year, The dividend yields are calculated using the updated cash dividends and market cap for the past two years, and select the top 30 stocks. In the middle of the year, the consituents deleted from the mother index are also deleted from the dividend index, and the constituents remained in the mother index are added into the dividend index successively according to the dividend yields ranking determined at the end of the last year. Temporary adjustment can be made in accordance with the temporary constituents adjustment of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 380 Index.

SSE State-owned Enterprises Dividend Index, SSE Central State-owned Enterprises Dividend Index and SSE Private-owned Enterprises Dividend Index Methodology
28 Jun 2012
SSE State-owned Enterprises Dividend Index, SSE Central State-owned Enterprises Dividend Index and SSE Private-owned Enterprises Dividend Index Methodology   1. Index Name and Code Index Code English Name Shortened Name 000151 SSE State-owned Enterprises Dividend Index SSE State-owned Enterprises Dividend 000152 SSE Central State-owned Enterprises Dividend Index SSE Central State-owned Enterprises Dividend 000153 SSE Private-owned Enterprises Dividend Index SSE Private-owned Enterprises Dividend   2. Base Date and Base Index Base date of SSE State-owned Enterprises Dividend Index and SSE Private-owned Enterprises Dividend Index: June 30, 2009. Base date of SSE Central State-owned Enterprises Dividend Index: Dec 31, 2008. Base index:1000.   3. Constituents Selection SSE State-owned Enterprises Dividend Index (1) Index Universe o  Shanghai Stock Exchange listed companies that are realistically controlled by the Stated-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of State Council(SASAC), the Ministry of Finance, local State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, local municipal government and local state-owned enterprises; o  Continuously paid dividend in the past two years and the cash dividend yield (after tax) each year is higher than 0; o  Daily average total market cap in the past one year is ranked top 80% of Shanghai A shares; o  Daily average trading value in the past one year is ranked top 80% of Shanghai A shares. (2) Selection Method Rank the stocks in the index universe by average cash dividend yield (after tax) for the past two years and select the top 30. Stocks considered by the Index Advisory Committee as inappropriate as constituents will not be selected. SSE Central State-owned Enterprises Dividend Index (1) Index Universe o  Shanghai Stock Exchange listed companies that are realistically controlled by the Stated-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of State Council(SASAC) and the Ministry of Finance; o  Continuously paid dividend in the past two years and the cash dividend yield (after tax) each year is higher than 0; o  Daily average total market cap in the past one year is ranked top 80% of Shanghai A shares; o  Daily average trading value in the past one year is ranked top 80% of Shanghai A shares. (2) Selection Method: same as the above. SSE Private-owned Enterprises Dividend Index (1) Index Universe o  Shanghai Stock Exchange listed companies that are realistically controlled by domestic natural person（including HK, Macao and Taiwan）; o  Continuously paid dividend in the past two years and the cash dividend yield (after tax) each year is higher than 0; o  Daily average total market cap in the past one year is ranked top 80% of Shanghai A shares; o  Daily average trading value in the past one year is ranked top 80% of Shanghai A shares. (2) Selection Method: same as the above.   4. Index Calculation The formula is: Current index =Σ(Price×Adjusted No. of Shares×Adjusted Dividend Yield Factor)/ Base Period×1000 The calculation of adjusted no. of shares is the same with that of SSE Large&Mid&Small Cap index. Adjusted Dividend Yield Factor=Dividend Yield/( Price×Total Shares×Inclusion Factor)   5. Index Review SSE State-owned Enterprises Dividend Index, SSE Central State-owned Enterprises Dividend Index and SSE Private-owned Enterprises Dividend Index will review once every year. Ongoing review can be made under certain circumstances if necessary. Current constituents that don't meet the following requirements in the review will be removed first: (a) Controlling shareholder unchanged; (b) Last year's cash dividend yield (after tax) is higher than 0.5%; (c) Daily average total market cap in the past one year is ranked top 90% of Shanghai A shares; (d) Daily average trading value in the past one year is ranked top 90% of Shanghai A shares. Original constituents that meet the above requirements are still qualified for the new index universe. At periodical review, rank stocks in the new index universe by average cash dividend yield (after tax) for the past two years and select the top 30. Normally constituents adjusted each time will not exceed 20% unless more than 20% of the current constituents are removed because of lower than 0.5% cash dividend yield (after tax) or the finally controller of more than 20% current constituents changed in last year.

SSE Market Value 100 Index to be launched
28 Jun 2012
To further enhance the SSE index family as well as to provide new analysis tool and underlying instrument for investors, Shanghai Stock Exchange and China Securities Index Co., Ltd announced that the SSE Market Value 100 Index would be launched on July 20, 2012. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. June 28, 2012 [SSE Market Value 100 Index Methodology]     [Constituents List]  

SSE Dividend Series Indices To be Launched
28 Jun 2012
To further enhance the SSE index family as well as to provide new analysis tools and underlying instruments for investors, SSE and CSI together announced that 5 dividend indices to be launched on July 20, 2012, including the SSE180 dividend index, SSE380 dividend index, SSE State-owned Enterprises Dividend Index, SSE Central State-owned Enterprises Dividend Index and SSE Private-owned Enterprises Dividend Index. Regarding the methodology and more details of the above indices, please refer to the official website of SSE ( www.sse.com.cn ) and the official website of CSI (www.csindex.com.cn) respectively. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. June 28, 2012 [Constituents List]

HKEx, SSE and SZSE Establish a Joint Venture in Hong Kong for Developing New Products and Services
28 Jun 2012
In a bid to promote the opening up and reform of the Chinese capital market, enhance its competitiveness and propel the internationalization of the Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (HKEx), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), the aforesaid three exchanges signed on June 28, 2012 (Thursday) the agreement on establishing a joint venture in Hong Kong for the development of financial products and services. The major business of the joint venture includes but is not limited to development and outward authorization of index-traded products, equity derivatives and other products, compilation of cross-border index by taking traded varieties in the three parties' market as main samples, development of taxonomies, information standards and information products of listed companies upon study, market promotion, services for participants, technical services, facilities construction and others. At the preliminary stage of its establishment, the joint venture will firstly open up an index series with the cross-border index as the main body and develop a family of index products on the basis of the index series. The index series is composed of a main-body cross-border index based on the large-cap mainland stocks respectively listed at the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Ltd. (the HKEx's wholly-owned subsidiary), the SSE and the SZSE as well as a cross-market index of A shares and an index of HKEx-listed shares respectively compiled according to mainland constituent stocks and HKEx-listed constituent stocks of the main-body cross-border index. Besides, the family of index products, comprised of stock index futures and option products of the index series, will be traded at the derivatives market of the HKEx. The joint venture's board of directors will include nine members, three from each exchange. The SSE and SZSE will nominate one of directors appointed by them to hold the position of Co-chairman of the Directorate, while the HKEx will nominate one of directors appointed by it as President of the joint venture. The initial registered capital of the joint venture is HKD0.3 billion, with HKD0.1 billion respectively contributed by the HKEx, SSE and SZSE. The three exchanges have the same shareholding proportions at the joint venture and plan to establish the joint venture within 3 months after signing the agreement. HKEx President Li Xiaojia said, "The three exchanges have carried out good cooperation in many areas for a long time. The newly-established joint venture will provide a new platform for the cooperation of the three exchanges and promote the further development of capital markets in the mainland and Hong Kong as well." "With the deepening of China's opening up and RMB's internationalization, it is a must for our country to compete in the international capital market. Therefore, for the mainland and Hong Kong, it will be a win-win to deepen the cooperation with the HKEx and develop relevant products for overseas markets upon study." said SSE President Zhang Yujun. SZSE President Song Liping said, "The establishment of the joint venture, a beneficial try for the opening up, will help foreign investors explore the mainland markets through Hong Kong and enhance the influence of the mainland capital markets on the offshore product markets."

Q&A on Improving Scheme for Delisting System
28 Jun 2012
Recently, the relevant person in charge with the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) answered the questions on the relevant issues about the "Scheme of Perfecting Delisting System of SSE-listed Companies". I. What are the backgrounds and process of the current perfection of the delisting system? The delisting of listed companies is a normal phenomenon on the securities market. As a fundamental system of the securities market, the delisting system has been practiced for more than 10 years, playing a positive role in the perfection of the market mechanism. However, with the gradually deepened development and reform of the capital market, the current delisting system has exposed such disadvantages as insufficient criteria and lengthy procedures for the delisting of listed companies, failing to function normally in delisting the listed companies with business failure. On the other hand, after 20 years of development, the initial formation of the multi-level capital market system in China and the increasingly perfected market structure and function calls for the flexible and smooth board-alternation mechanism and channels for promotion and demotion between multiple levels of the market and the market participants have made increasingly strong calling for reforming and perfecting the delisting system. At present, as the conditions are ripe for the reform of the delisting system, it is imperative to perfect the delisting system. In accordance with the arrangements for economic work and financial reform by the CPC Central Committee and the State Council, we must step up the improvement and perfection of the delisting system for listed companies. Under the guidance of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the SSE has actively promoted the reform of the delisting system. On April 29, 2012, the SSE released the "Scheme of Perfecting Delisting System of SSE-listed Companies (Draft Version for Soliciting Opinions)" (hereinafter referred to as the "Delisting Scheme (Draft)"), in a bid to publicly solicit opinions from the society. Since May 20, the deadline for the opinions solicitation, the SSE has revised and improved the scheme for the reform of the delisting system on the basis of the opinions of all the walks of life and has officially published the "Scheme of Perfecting Delisting System of SSE-listed Companies" (hereinafter referred to as the "Delisting Scheme"). II. What are the guidelines for and characteristics of the Delisting Scheme? The delisting system of listed companies is fundamental institutional arrangements for the capital market. Under the unified guidance of the CSRC, when formulating the delisting scheme, with a view to the actual and long-term development of China's capital market and in accordance with the guidelines of perfecting delisting criteria, making clear the delisting procedures and setting up the unimpeded delisting mechanism, the SSE has widely solicited opinions, considered and absorbed the suggestions of the market participants and put forward pertinent solutions for the issues causing strong reaction on the market. The Delisting Scheme has the following characteristics, First, the deficiencies of the existing delisting criteria and procedures have been mended. As the current delisting system failed to make clear requirements for the non-recurring gains and losses such as government subsidies and the deadline for supplementing materials, the phenomenon of the long-term "suspension without delisting" for some companies had been prominent. Through adding the criteria for "deducting non-recurring gains and losses" and the requirement for finishing supplementing materials within 30 trading days, the Delisting Scheme provides more specific and clearer provisions on the two key issues on the re-listing links. Second, the delisting criteria have been perfected. To address the long-term prominent problems on the market such as the "shell companies", the Delisting Scheme has seen the newly added delisting criteria on net assets, operating incomes, non-standard unqualified auditor's opinions and other aspects. In addition, the two delisting criteria in market trading for stock trading volume and stock's closing price have been newly introduced by drawing on the common practices on the securities markets of various countries. Third, the conditions for listing resumption and re-listing have been specified. As for the irrational phenomena on the stock market such as "bad money driving out good" and speculating in the "shell resources", the Delisting Scheme stipulates more detailed and more specific conditions for the links such as listing resumption and re-listing, making clear the market expectation and curbing the excessive speculation on the shares of the companies with bad performance. Fourth, the smooth linking-up and transition of the new and old delisting systems have been guaranteed. On the basis of fully listening to the opinions of the market participants, especially the claims of small and medium-sized investors, and considering the endurance of the market, the Delisting Scheme takes a safer approach to separating the new shares from the old ones in a bid to ease the pressures from the society and the market participants and contribute to the smooth implementation of the new delisting system. III. Can you introduce the opinions solicitation in general? As of May 20, the SSE had received a total of 320-plus feedback mails and 1,157 online questionnaires. During the process, the SSE held two symposiums in Shanghai and Changsha to solicit opinions on the delisting system, widely collecting the opinions by inviting the relevant professionals from some securities firms, fund companies and other institutions as well as the front-line regulators of the agencies of the CSRC. Overall, the market participants have mostly made positive comments on the "Delisting Scheme (Draft)", considering it conducive to perfecting the delisting system and promoting the sound development of the stock market. Meanwhile, the feedback opinions have also provided specific opinions and suggestions on the institutional arrangements related to the "Delisting Scheme (Draft)". IV. What are the basic guidelines for the modification of the "Delisting Scheme (Draft)"? After the opinions solicitation, the SSE amended and perfected the "Delisting Scheme (Draft)". During the course of the modification of the scheme, the SSE has adhered to the market-oriented reform of the delisting system and rationally absorbed the opinions of the market participants, paying attention to the protection of the investors' overall interests while appropriately taking into account the investors' partial interests in the arrangements of some specific systems. In the modification of the specific aspects of the scheme, firstly, the perfection of the delisting indicators has been adhered to, the delisting procedures have been simplified and the unimpeded delisting mechanism has been set up; secondly, the linking-up of the applicability of the new and old systems has been arranged effectively and the existing investors' expectation has been stabilized; thirdly, the institutional arrangements have been innovated with the intensity of warning for major companies with risks stepped up through introducing the risk warning board, the rational demands of the investors of the delisted companies for stock transfer met through setting up the stock transfer system for delisted companies, and the space for the eligible delisted companies returning to the centralized trading market reserved through setting up the re-listing system. V. What modifications have been made to the setting of the delisting indicators in the Delisting Scheme? (I) The delisting term for the indicator of net assets has been changed from 2 years to 3 years. The feedback mails and the reflections at the symposiums showed that most of the feedback opinions considered the delisting criterion of the minus net asset for two consecutive years to be comparatively tight, suggesting changing the term to 3 years and adding the link of listing suspension so as to keep in line with the delisting links of the delisting indicators such as net profit, operating income and the audit opinion types. After discussions, the SSE holds that compared with other financial indicators for delisting, the indicator of net asset was set without the link of listing suspension. Considering the balance of the system design, the SSE has decided to adopt the relevant opinions to add the link of listing suspension for the indicator of net asset and stipulate that listing termination shall be implemented for the companies with minus net assets for 3 consecutive years. (II) The delisting term for the indicator of operating income has been changed from 4 years to 3 years. The results of the questionnaires showed that as for the delisting term of 4 years for the indicator of operating income in the "Delisting Scheme (Draft)", the replied opinions of "adequate" and "inadequate" roughly took the equal half part. Most of the opinions from the institutional investors held that the criterion of the main business incomes of less than RMB10 million for 4 consecutive years is too lenient, suggesting shortening the delisting term to 3 years. After discussions, the SSE holds that considering the indicator of operating income reflecting the listed companies' capability in sustained operation, the criterion in the former provisions is less adequate. The SSE decided to adopt the relevant opinions, shifting to issuing delisting risk warnings to the listed companies with less than RMB10 million of operating income in the recent year and accordingly changing the former delisting term of 4 years to 3 years. (III) The situations of the delisting risk warnings for minus net assets and less than RMB10 million of operating incomes caused by the retrospective restatement have been added. Some feedback opinions propose to prevent the listed companies from evading delisting risk warnings by the means of retrospective restatement. After discussions, the SSE holds that as the minus net assets or less than RMB10 million of operating incomes of the listed companies caused by the retrospective restatement are usually related to the causes such as prior-period errors of the accounting reports or false records, it is necessary to tighten requirements in the system design. Therefore, the SSE decided to adopt the opinions to add the situations of the delisting risk warnings for minus net assets and less than RMB10 million of operating incomes caused by the retrospective restatement. (IV) The indicators of B-share trading volume and share closing price have been added. Most of the feedback opinions hold that the indicators of share trading volume and share closing price set in the "Delisting Scheme (Draft)" are rational. Meanwhile, some opinions proposed to consider the specific cases of the listed companies with both A and B shares and set respectively the relevant indicators for A shares and B shares. After discussions, the SSE holds that it is necessary to specify respective indicators related to market trading in accordance with the different cases of the A-share and B-share companies. In order to avoid the system gap, the SSE decided to adopt relevant opinions, stipulating that: (1) the listing shall be terminated for the shares of the companies with only B shares listed on the SSE that see the accumulative daily trading volume of less than 1 million shares for 120 consecutive trading days or the daily closing prices of less than the nominal value of the share for 20 consecutive trading days; (2) as for the companies with both A shares and B shares listed on the SSE, if the share trading volumes or the share closing prices reach the delisting criteria for A-share listed companies and B-share listed companies at the same time, the listing of the shares of the company shall terminate. VI. What modifications have been made to the conditions for applying for the restoration of listing in the "Delisting Scheme"? A lot of feedback of questionnaires and symposiums holds that as the "Delisting Scheme (Draft)" only requires that the net profit deducted by non-recurring gains and losses should be a positive number when the company in listing suspension applies for the listing resumption, the relevance of various delisting indicators is not taken into account. Some opinions suggest taking into account various delisting indicators inclusively. After discussions, the SSE holds that if a company in listing suspension applies for the listing resumption, it should at least eliminate all the risky status that is likely to cause the delisting risk warnings for it in case the company touches the criteria for delisting risk warning or listing suspension soon after the listing is resumed. Therefore, the SSE decided to adopt the relevant opinions to relatively increase the conditions for the listing resumption of the companies in listing suspension, requiring that after the share listing of the companies listed on the SSE is suspended because the stipulated criteria for net profit, net asset, operating income or audit opinion type are triggered, if the company applies for the listing resumption, it should meet the conditions that the net profits before and after the deduction of non-recurring gains and losses should be positive values, the net asset should be positive value, the operating income should not be less than RMB10 million, and the audit report with adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion or qualified opinion should not be given to the financial and accounting report. Meanwhile, the SSE has put forward the requirements in capability in sustained operation, corporate governance, standardized operation, internal control and other aspects for the companies applying for the listing resumption. VII. What are the specific arrangements for the setting of the risk warning board and the delisting sorting board? Most of the feedback opinions hold that it is necessary to set up the risk warning board and the delisting sorting board. In the modification of the scheme, the SSE holds that as the nature of the delisting sorting board is to provide a period of trading time for the investors as the last withdrawal opportunity, the board is not necessary to exist as an independent trading board. Therefore, the SSE decided to adopt the expression of the "delisting arrangement term". The delisting arrangement term is defined as the trading time of 30 trading days granted by the SSE to the shares of the listed companies with listing termination that has been decided by the SSE. In the term the shares in the company shall be traded on the risk warning board. The listing of the shares in the company shall terminate on the day after the expiration of the delisting arrangement term and the SSE shall delist the company. As the purpose of the risk warning board is to warn the investors of significant risks, according to the requirements of the risk warnings, the SSE may take necessary measures of trading restrictions, measures of market monitoring and investor suitability management measures for the risk warning board and implement strict regulation on information disclosure for the companies on the board. 1. Measures for trading restrictions will be set up. The SSE may place trading limits on the shares of risk warning (except the shares under delisting arrangement) and require that the investors should only trade in the way of limit order; the SSE may stipulate that the accumulative volume of a single constituent bought by a single account in a single trading day should not exceed the limits. The symmetric trading limits will be implemented for the shares in the delisting arrangement term with the limits set at 10% for preliminary consideration. 2. More market monitoring measures will be introduced. For the stocks on the risk warning board (except the shares under delisting arrangement) reaching a certain level of the turnover rate in the day with 30% for preliminary consideration, the SSE may implement intraday trading suspension to them till the trading resumption 5 minutes before the closing of the trading. For the stocks in the delisting arrangement term, the measures of intraday trading suspension will not be taken for preliminary consideration. 3. The investor suitability management will be strengthened. The investors must sign the Risk Disclosure Statement before placing orders for the stocks with risk warnings. The member units of the SSE should disclose risks to the investors through effective means. Firstly, when the investors place orders for the stocks with risk warnings, risks should be warned for each order; secondly, the investors should be reminded of the number of the remaining trading days of the stocks in the delisting arrangement term. 4. The regulatory requirements for information disclosure will be enhanced. The company with shares traded on the risk warning board should timely issue the announcement of risk warning to warn the risks of the company and disclose whether the significant matters that should be disclosed but fail to be disclosed exist in the company. The risk warning board is planned to be launched in early 2013 after finishing the relevant business and technical preparations. The existing stocks of *ST and ST companies and the stocks of companies under delisting arrangement, listing-resumption-related companies, relisting-related companies and other companies with significant risks in the future will be included in the trading on the risk warning board. VIII. What are specific arrangements to the setting of share transfer system of delisted companies? According to most feedbacks, it is a must to set the transfer system of delisted companies' shares. The transfer system of delisted companies' shares offers a place for shares transfer to investors of delisted companies, with an aim of meeting their rational needs for shares transfer. As regulated by the Delisting Scheme, after listing termination of listed companies' shares, upon selection and application, listed companies shall transfer their shares into national over-the-counter markets, other qualified regional ones or the transfer system of delisted companies' shares established by the SSE for shares transfer. As for companies without application, the SSE will arrange the transfer of their shares through the transfer system of delisted companies' shares established by it. The transfer system of delisted companies' shares established by the SSE provides relevant services for delisted companies' shares transfer, information disclosure and others. This system implements the shares transfer arrangements adapting to delisted companies' features, adopts strict measures on shares transfer limitation, market surveillance and investor suitability management in addition to carrying out necessary requirement of information disclosure. When amending the scheme, concerning the transfer system of delisted companies' shares, the SSE has worked out the following initial scheme: 1. Providing limited arrangements for shares transfer. According to the uniform laws and regulations, the SSE's transfer system of delisted companies' shares applies the same information disclosure requirement as that in relevant market to delisted companies and implements the unified transfer method. 2. Adopting strict measures on investor suitability management. Except the original investors of delisted companies, only qualified investors such as institutional investors and qualified individual ones can enter the transfer system of delisted companies' shares for shares transfer. According to the suitability management standard of individual investors set by reference to the method adopted for margin trading and securities lending business, individual investors shall have several-year investment experience and certain financial assets in addition to passing the risk testing. The SSE's member units ought to sign the entrustment agreements and risk disclosure statements with investors at counters and conduct the front control of the investors' suitability. 3. Defining necessary requirement of information disclosure. In accordance with the regulations of the CSRC, delisted companies shall fulfill information disclosure obligation by announcing their significant information through their websites and the non-listed public companies' information disclosure platform or other public media designated by the CSRC. IX. What are amendments to re-listing conditions in the Delisting Scheme? Although most feedbacks say yes to the setting of re-listing system, all the parties have major differences on the re-listing conditions. Upon discussion, the SSE held that re-listing system is an important way to unclog delisting channels and alleviate delisting pressure. Loose re-listing conditions are adverse to effectively exert normal functions of the delisting system, while strict re-listing ones go against the returning of delisted companies whose abilities of continuous operation and corporate governance have been greatly improved to the centralized trading market. Therefore, by integrating opinions from all market participants and thinking about referring to implementation of the conditions for listing resumption and back door listing, the SSE has set the re-listing conditions according to delisting companies' financial situation, abilities of continuous operation, corporate governance and standardized operation. On the other hand, the SSE, within 3 years after their listing termination, will not accept the re-listing applications of the companies refusing to coordinate with the delisting work, in order to promote the smooth delisting work and protect the interests of small and medium-sized investors. X. What are arrangements to the transition from old rules to new ones in the Delisting Scheme? According to most feedbacks collected from such channels as questionnaires and symposiums, efforts shall be made in the transition from old rules to new ones. Importance shall be attached to the medium and long-term delisting system, thus realizing the smooth transition from old system to new one according to the principle of "no retroactive laws". Upon discussion, the SSE held that in a bid to successfully implementing the smooth transition from old delisting system to new one and protect investor's reasonable anticipation made in relevant stock trading based on the old delisting system, the SSE has decided to adopt relevant opinions and take the method of "dividing the old from the new" to arrange the transition from old rules to new ones in the principle of "no retroactive laws" as follows: As for the companies whose shares' listing has been suspended before the issuance of new rules, their listing resumption and termination are subject to original rules and will be handled according to the following circumstances: (1) for the companies whose shares' listing was suspended before January 1, 2012, the SSE will grant grace period and make decisions on their listing resumption or listing termination before December 31, 2012. (2) for the companies whose shares' listing is suspended in 2012, if they put forward applications for listing resumption within the time limit after publication of their annual reports of 2012 and the SSE has accepted their applications, the SSE will make decisions on their listing resumption or listing termination within 30 trading days after applications acceptance days. For the companies whom the SSE requires to provide supplementary materials, they shall provide relevant materials within less than 30 accumulative trading days, while the period for the companies' providing supplementary materials will not be included into the period for the SSE's making relevant decisions. The SSE will make the decision on terminating the shares listing of the companies who fail to disclose annual reports of 2012 within the legal period. After issuance of the new rules, the calculation of three new indicators, namely, net assets, business income and audit opinion, will not involve the data in the previous years. That means, the data in listed companies' annual reports of 2012 will be taken as those in the most recent year, while the data in annual reports of 2012 and 2013 as those in the recent two years and so on. After issuance of the new rules, newly-added indicators, namely, trading volume and closing prices of shares, will take effect since the implementation day of new rules. The indicators regulated in the old rules and continuously adopted in the new ones will not apply to the principle of "dividing the old from the new", so it is a need to continue to calculating data of relevant years. The risk alert board, the transfer system of delisted companies' shares and the re-listing system as regulated in the new rules will be implemented after the SSE's relevant business rules and technical preparations are completed, with specific implementation subject to further notice. XI. What are other opinions and suggestions about the construction of securities market on the Draft Version? When soliciting opinions, we also collected other ideas and suggestions about the construction of securities market. For example, some feedback proposed to further strengthen the protection of investors and perfect the punishment mechanism and accountability mechanism for listed companies' rule-breaking activities, while some feedback proposed to limit backdoor restructuring of listing-suspended companies, for the purpose of reducing themes about market speculation and encouraging the rational investment. Therefore, we will take these feedbacks into full consideration and put forward policy suggestions to relevant authorities in time when amending and perfecting relevant systems in the future. XII. What are the similarities and differences between the delisting schemes by the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE)? It is a long-term task to perfect the delisting system. It is normal and beneficial for different exchanges to formulate personalized systems according to the characteristics of their own markets in the long process of exploration. In general, the SSE and the SZSE have the same direction and thought for perfecting the delisting system. They also share much in common in the overall framework and major delisting standards. However, the two exchanges have some differences in the stipulations on risk alert and follow-up arrangements for delisting. As for risk alert, the SSE alerts investors to the risks by dint of the risk alert board and the mark *ST for delisting risk alert. The SZSE alerts investors to the risks on the investment in relevant companies with the mark *ST for delisting risk alert in the main board and the SME board. In regard to the follow-up arrangements for delisting, the SSE-listed companies can apply for shifting their shares to a national over-the-counter market or other qualified regional over-the-counter markets for transfer upon listing, or can apply for shifting their shares to the delisted company share transfer system established by the SSE for transfer. The SZSE-listed companies, whose shares have been suspended for listing, can choose a national over-the-counter market or other qualified regional over-the-counter markets for transfer upon listing. XIII. What are the follow-up arrangements after the release of the Delisting Scheme? After the release of the Delisting Scheme, the SSE will amend its "Stock Listing Rules" based on relevant contents in the scheme, formulate the supporting business rules related to the risk alert board, the transfer system of delisting companies' shares and the re-listing system and implement the relevant technical preparations. It will release these rules and put them into effect as soon as possible. By complying with the market demands and reasonably absorbing public opinions, the SSE formulates the scheme of perfecting delisting system in the existing markets and the legal environment, which implements the requirements of the CSRC for unswervingly advancing the reform in delisting system. Concerning the defects of insufficient criteria and lengthy procedures in the existing delisting system, the SSE has added multiple objective delisting indicators, specified the time limits and the procedures for each links of delisting, and established a well-organized market-based delisting mechanism in the scheme, meeting the goals of the reform as expected by the market participants. However, the SSE is clearly aware that it will take a very long time to perfect the delisting system. With the deepening of the reform in the Chinese securities market and the changes in the legal environment, the SSE will renew its efforts to sum up the experience and the problems in the practice of delisting and collect public opinions on the basis of the reform of the delisting system, thus paving the way for the further improvement of the delisting system.

Notice of Issuing "Scheme of Perfecting Delisting System of SSE-listed Companies"
28 Jun 2012
All market participants, On April 29, 2012, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) issued the "Scheme of Perfecting Delisting System of SSE-listed Companies (Draft Version)" to solicit opinions from the public. After May 20, the deadline for soliciting opinions, the SSE absorbed reasonable opinions from the public, and amended and perfected the scheme before formulating the "Scheme of Perfecting Delisting System of SSE-listed Companies" (the "Scheme"). It hereby publishes the "Scheme". Shanghai Stock Exchange June 28, 2012

Constituent Periodical Review of SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index
27 Jun 2012
Constituent Periodical Review of SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index (To be Effective on July 2nd, 2012)     Deletions Additions Bond Code Bond Name Bond Code Bond Name 120490 04南网⑵ 122012 08保利债 120605 06三峡债 122013 08北辰债 122036 09沪张江 122067 11南钢债 122089 11马钢01 122080 11康美债 122102 11广汇01 122802 11辽阳债 122857 10九华债 122888 10华靖债 126014 08国电债 122927 09海航债           Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 2012-6-27

Mutual Promotion, Common Development
27 Jun 2012
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the Guangdong Provincial People's Government signed the "Framework Agreement on Strategic Cooperation". On June 26, 2012, the SSE signed the "Framework Agreement on Strategic Cooperation" with the Guangdong Provincial People's Government in Guangzhou and attended the China (Guangzhou) International Finance Expo on invitation. Present at the signing ceremony were Chief Wang Yang of the Guangdong Provincial Party Committee and SSE Governor Gui Minjie as well as the signers of both sides, namely Governor Zhu Xiaodan of the Guangdong Provincial People's Government and SSE President Zhang Yujun. The cooperation agreement signed by both sides will not only facilitate the exchange of information about the capital market but also help to cultivate Guangdong-based enterprises for going public and support the listed companies for reinforced rationalization. Moreover, it will be conducive to promoting the development of the bond market and strengthening the publicity and education for the securities market. The SSE takes it as an important move to sign cooperation agreements with local governments at all levels for serving the national economy and accelerating its development. Up to now, the SSE has signed the cooperation memoranda with 10 provincial governments. According to sources, the presence of the SSE at the China (Guangzhou) International Finance Expo aims to promote the construction of the multi-tiered blue chip market and improve the market services. The SSE has sent experts and officials as guest speakers at relevant forums in the expo.

SSE Enhances Abilities of Small and Medium-sized Investors in Rational Investment by Constantly Reinforcing Investor Education Related to New Shares
26 Jun 2012
As the core foundation for the survival and development of securities market, the mature investors with reasonable structure is crucial to the safe operation and functioning of the capital market. The current emerging and transitional capital market in China develops rapidly and changes greatly. Due to multiple factors like social culture, investment habits and psychological bias, some small and medium-sized investors believe "rumors" and pay attention to "themes" and such market phenomena as new shares speculation, small-cap stocks speculation, underperformed stocks speculation and frequent trading are longstanding. Therefore, Chairman Guo Shuqing of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) said to the small and medium-sized investors at the forum in Guangdong Province that such serious phenomena as new shares speculation, small-cap stocks speculation and underperformed stocks speculation in the securities market have not only led to the irrational stock price structure, but also harmed investors' interests. As a result of unceasing speculation after new shares' listing, the investors participating in the new shares speculation suffered great losses. Aiming at investors' irrational investment behavior of new shares speculation, it is a must to tighten the crackdown pertinently, perfect the construction of relevant systems, drive IPO pricing back to earth, and develop and establish the investor team with rational investment concepts. With the issuance of the "Guidance Opinion on Further Deepening Reform of New Share Issuance System", focusing on the goal of "promoting all market participants to fulfill their respective duties, reflecting real corporate values through new share prices, realizing the coordinated and sound development of the primary and secondary markets and protecting the legal rights and interests of investors", a new round of reform in the new share issuance system has been formally launched. Under the above backdrop, according to the united deployment of the CSRC, with a goal of guiding the rational investment of small and medium-sized investors by urging them to study and grasp new shares, from April this year, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has carried out the serial work related to the IPO simulated price inquiry activity for small and medium-sized investors in response to the reform of the new share issuance system. All this aimed to strengthen the investor education related to new shares and elevate investors' abilities in the rational participation. Get well-prepared for guiding the rational participation of investors in the new share investment In order to give full play to the major role of IPO simulated price inquiry activity in guiding small and medium-sized investors to form correct investment concepts for new shares, the SSE activated relevant business departments including those related to issuance and listing, investor education and website technology development for establishing special working teams to study and formulate the working scheme. Moreover, by soliciting opinions from investment bank divisions of securities companies such as Shenyin & Wanguo Securities, Guotai Jun'an Securities Co., Ltd. and CITIC Construction & Investment Securities Co., Ltd., the SSE formulated the final activity scheme based on the full discussion and research. After confirmation of the scheme, the SSE set about all preparations for the IPO simulated price inquiry activity immediately. Besides, the SSE developed the SSE's IPO Simulated Price Inquiry Platform for Small and Medium-sized Investors (http://ipo.sseinfo.com/) within only two weeks, thus ensuring the timely implementation of the activity. Noticeably, at each stage of the scheme design, the SSE highlighted the orientation of guiding the rational participation of small and medium-sized investors in the new share investment, including requiring investors to read the "IPO Prospectus" carefully before price inquiry, setting questions about companies' relevant information before price inquiry, providing P/E ratios for investors for reference, and opening the special column for the investor education related to new shares, in a bid to guide investors to learn, compare and study. Earnestly implementing for jointly strengthening the investor education related to new shares In allusion to the serious irrational investment such as new shares speculation in the current market, the SSE has been focusing on strengthening the investor education related to new shares since the implementation of the initial activity. On one hand, the SSE made great efforts to improve the efficiency in the investor education related to new shares by innovating working manners. Since the launch of the activity, the SSE led securities companies and investors to better know the rules and significance of price inquiry quickly by continuously innovating working manners and organizing the shooting of relevant educational video clips. Besides, the SSE organized some active investors in the price inquiry activity to attend the promotion meetings for IPO road shows, with an aim of helping investors better understand the new shares' issuance and pricing procedures for new shares. Furthermore, the SSE also invited senior industry researchers of securities companies to explain the valuation method of new shares, important points in the industry analysis and investing-value analysis to investors, helping them to learn the skills of industry analysis and rationally judge the intrinsic value of new shares. On the other hand, the SSE, along with securities companies, jointly promoted the investor education related to new shares. In the process of launching the activity, the SSE called up securities companies to go all out for the education, namely, requiring securities companies to guide investors for serious study on new shares and rational participation in quotations for new shares by on-the-spot interpretation, video and other ways. Meanwhile, the notice issued by the SSE required securities companies to give full play to their frontline role in serving investors and constantly toughening the education via their business departments nationwide. Promoting the suitability management on investors of new shares by timely summary Since the first domestic simulated price inquiry activity, centering on the guideline of "soliciting opinions from the market in time, summing up the correct working experience and constantly optimized the activity procedures", the SSE gradually improved and optimized its working manners and further exerted the supporting function of the simulated price inquiry activity in deepening investor education and protection. An SSE official said, "When launching the activity, we found that investors' participation in the simulated price inquiry activity currently was highlighted by distinct behaviors as follows: firstly, investors' quotations were prudent. In the several IPO simulated price inquiry activities held previously, most orders of investors were between RMB5 and RMB15; secondly, on the whole, there existed great differences in the investors' valuation towards new shares. Small and retail investors favored low quotations, while the investors with larger assets scale preferred higher quotes on average; thirdly, the quotations of elder investors were more prudent. In addition, upon analysis on the price inquiry data, we also found some problems. For example, some investors' quotations were random to some extent as price inquiry data showed that some investors had abnormal quotations. Upon data comparison, it showed that there still existed deviation between investors' quotations and real issuance prices. According to the above analytical results, the SSE is actively studying and taking measures for the purpose of accomplishing the activity." There have been 6 rounds of IPO simulated price inquiry activities so far. 8 news shares in Beijing Cuiwei Tower Co., Ltd., ZheJiang AoKang Shoes Co., Ltd., Sichuan Star Cable Co., Ltd., Epoxy Base Electronic Material Corporation Limited, Jiangsu Sunrain Solar Energy Co., Ltd., CTS International Logistics Corporation Limited, China Automotive Engineering Research Institute Co., Ltd. and Bros Eastern Co., Ltd. and 14,300 person-times have participated in the simulated price inquiries, with the average participation rate up to 90%. These activities have been widely acknowledged by all market participants including investors and securities companies. In the future, on the basis of consistently leading investors to rationally participate in the new share investment, the SSE will enrich the activity contents by constantly innovating the forms of the investor education related to new shares, broaden the coverage of the activity by optimizing the selection of the investors participating in the quotation, and better realize the function of the activity in educating the investors of new shares by strengthening the supervision on securities companies' activity organization and investor education related to new shares and fully exerting their functions as the front keynote and terminal medium. In addition, with the successive launch of simulated price inquiry activities of new shares, the SSE is taking measures to require securities companies to strengthen the investor education related to new shares and the suitability management on investors of new shares. Meanwhile, in order to further implement relevant requirements in the "Guidance Opinion on Further Deepening Reform of New Share Issuance System", the SSE requires securities companies to follow relevant requirements of the suitability management on investors and strengthen the suitability management on customers purchasing new shares on the basis of formulating self-regulatory rules of the suitability management on investors.

SSE Endeavors to Guide Rational Investment
21 Jun 2012
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), the Zhejiang Securities Regulatory Bureau (ZSRB) and the Ningbo Securities Regulatory Bureau (NSRB) jointly held a training class for guiding rational investment. A Zhejiang-based special training class for guiding rational investment, jointly sponsored by the SSE, the ZSRB and the NSRB, was recently held in Hangzhou, with a view to implementing the investor suitability management and enhancing the investors' abilities of rational participation in investment. Heads of the business departments from nearly 400 securities companies took part in the training class. Relevant officials from the ZSRB, the NSRB and the SSE delivered speeches at the meeting for the training. An SSE official pointed out that securities companies should play a major role in innovating on products, business and mechanisms as well as guiding rational investment and value investing because they, as the bridges linking investors and the capital market, undertake the historic mission of fulfilling these tasks. As stated by Chairman Guo Shuqing of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) at the national seminar on innovation and development of securities companies, securities companies should have the courage to take the industry responsibilities for realizing the sound and coordinated development of the securities industry and the national economy. They should undertake the market-related responsibilities and safeguard the principle of "Justice, Fairness and Openness" for protecting legal rights and interests of investors. In addition, they should assume social responsibilities and set up the concept of being honest, keeping faith, complying with laws and regulations, loving the country and the people, helping the poor and contributing to eco-protection. "Securities companies shoulder weighty responsibilities in investor protection. They are obliged to guide rational investment and value investing", said Deputy Director Cai Jianchun of the ZSRB, who put forward four suggestions on securities companies' guidance for rational investment. According to Cai, securities companies will strive to build business departments into the wealth management centers of investors by defining the departments' functions. Besides, they need attach great importance to the investor education so as to achieve a win-win situation for the sustainable development of investors, the capital market and themselves. Moreover, they should strictly implement the investor suitability management system by selling suitable products to suitable persons in suitable ways. Furthermore, they will broaden their minds and promote the innovation to improve the services for investors. It is an objective demand that securities companies should implement the investor suitability management and guide rational investment and value investing for cultivating stable clients and elevating their core competitiveness. In this regard, Deputy Director Li Liguo of the NSRB also proposed three suggestions as follows. Firstly, securities companies need make efforts on risk evaluation and risk classification for investors and products, and meanwhile apply the requirements of the suitability management to various systems. Secondly, they need conduct the investor education on securities products especially innovative products to facilitate investors' correct understanding of the products and guide rational investment. Finally, they will intensify the survey research on investors and timely report investors' claims. The SSE, by cooperating with the five securities regulatory authorities in Shanghai, Beijing, Chongqing, etc., has successively held the training classes for guiding rational investment, with the trainees up to over 1,500.

SSE Innovates for Developing Bond Market
20 Jun 2012
From this year, under the leadership of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), adhering to the basic objective of developing the bond market to serve the real economy and centering on the innovation in products and services, has steadily pushed forward the innovations in the bond market, including the SMEs private placement bonds, the repurchase of convertible bonds and the investor suitability management, which have achieved good market results and facilitated the development of the bond market. Firstly, the SSE renewed its efforts on the innovation in products in the bond market by promoting SMEs private placement bonds. As Chinese SMEs have always found themselves difficult and costly to finance, the SSE, following the requirements of the State Council and the CSRC for supporting the development of SMEs and serving the real economy, started to study SMEs private placement bonds for providing SMEs with financing channels in the bond market at the end of last year. In January 2012, the SSE set about drafting the rules and regulations about SMEs private placement bonds. After having solicited opinions from securities companies and other market participants for several times, the SSE published the "SSE's Tentative Measures for SMEs Private Placement Bonds" and relevant business guidelines in May 2012. Besides, the SSE propelled the preliminary work for SMEs private placement bonds with the cooperation of the departments concerned of the local governments in Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai, Jiangsu Province, Zhejiang Province and Guangdong Province upon contacts, and meanwhile mobilized the brokers in these regions to make preparations at various symposia. So far, 18 enterprises have submitted to the SSE the filing application materials for the issuance of SMEs private placement bonds, among which 14 have received the "Notice on Acceptance of Filing" and 5 have completed the bond issuance. Secondly, the SSE improved its services for investors by including convertible bonds in the repurchase pledge bank. Convertible bonds could only be used for spot trading but not for repurchase trading like enterprises bonds and corporate bonds on the exchanges. Through market research, the SSE found that investors had large demands for financing with convertible bonds, so it began to study the feasibility of including convertible bonds in the repurchase pledge bank last year. Before long, the SSE reached a consensus on the business innovation with China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. Through business and technical preparations for over half a year, convertible bonds were successfully included in the repurchase pledge bank from May 21, 2012 when the convertible bonds valued about RMB21 billion were transferred to the bank. By taking advantage of the repurchase market on the SSE, the business innovation of including convertible bonds in the repurchase pledge bank effectively solved the financing problem of investors of convertible bonds and perfected the services for investors of bonds. Thirdly, the SSE pushed forward the innovation in the way of management on investors of bonds by ushering in the investor suitability management. With the expanding of the bond market and the continuous innovation in products, the SSE strengthened the protection of investors in the bond market. It published the "SSE Provisional Measures on Investor Suitability Management in Bond Market" and the "SSE Guidance for Investor Suitability Management in Bond Market" respectively at the end of 2011 and the beginning of 2012, taking the initiative to establish the investor suitability system in the bond market and classifying the market investors into professional investors and ordinary ones according to their product familiarity and risk tolerance. On that basis, the SSE conducted the classified management on investors in the bond market and allowed ordinary investors to only invest in bond varieties with low risks for protecting legal rights and interests of investors. Currently, all the brokers have submitted relevant implementation schemes and work systems and conducted the classified management on bond trading with the aid of relevant technologies. Thus, the investor suitability management in the bond market proceeds on a regular basis. Fourthly, the SSE released the bond valuation data for perfecting the infrastructure in the bond market. Bond valuation is an important part of the infrastructure in the bond market, which is of great significance to accounting especially for bond varieties inactive in trading. Traditionally the closing price has always been taken as the benchmark price on the exchanges and no bond valuation system has been established. However, to improve the infrastructure in the bond market, the SSE exerted itself to establish a valuation system in the bond market this year. From February 20, 2012 onwards, the SSE released to the market the CSI bond valuation data through bond.sse.com.cn and unidirectional satellites. Thus, the bond valuation system in the SSE's bond market has taken shape, making up for a deficiency in the infrastructure in the bond market. Finally, the SSE propelled the innovation in market promotion for improving the market services. It publicized the bond market and bond financing channels through seminars, trainings and other ways. Besides, it held the promotion meetings at Shanghai, Beijing, Changsha, Xi'an, Wuhan, Chengdu and other regions, in which over 100 listed companies across the country participated, achieving good market effects. By the end of May, 723 kinds of bonds had been listed on the SSE, up by 91 kinds of bonds, or 14.4% compared with those at the end of 2011. Moreover, the value of bonds for custody had amounted to RMB813.2 billion, with an increase of RMB80 billion or 10.9% compared with that at the end of 2011. The total turnover of bonds traded on the SSE from January to May 2012 reached RMB12,574.6 billion (accounting for 60.4% of the total turnover of securities traded on the SSE in the same period), with a year-on-year increase of RMB6,785.9 billion or 117%. In the coming years, the Chinese bond market will be confronted with great development opportunities. According to sources, the SSE is making relevant schemes for the innovation in pre-issuance of treasury bonds, assets securitization and other varieties to further enrich the varieties traded on the exchanged-based bond market. Furthermore, in line with the principles of unifying market-entry conditions, information disclosure, credit assessment requirements, investor suitability systems and investor protection systems, the SSE will propel the interflow between on-floor and over-the-counter markets to promote the great development of the exchange-based bond market.

SSE Take Measures to Promote Governance of Listed Companies for Improved Blue Chip Market
18 Jun 2012
Serial Report (V) on SSE's Implemention of CSRC's Various Measures on Scientific Development of Securities Market The governance of listed companies is re-spotlighted for the recent cases about the dominance of public funds and minority shareholders in corporate governance. With the gradual development of the capital market and the establishment of fundamental systems for the corporate governance structure in recent years, the governance and the transparency of listed companies have been greatly improved. Meanwhile, the development of the capital market endows corporate governance with new connotation and also poses new requirements for the regulation on corporate governance. It can be seen from the annual reports of SSE-listed companies in 2011 that positive changes have taken place in listed companies in terms of the compilation and release of social responsibility reports, the duty-performing of directors, supervisors and senior management members, the establishment of internal control systems, the disclosure of audit reports on internal control, etc. Besides, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), taking corporate governance as the basis for the construction of the blue chip market all the time, has recently published the notice related to listed companies' focus on the investor relation management and plans to issue measures for toughening regulation on information disclosure of cash dividend distribution in a bid to improve the governance and the transparency of listed companies, facilitate their standard operation and strengthen the protection of legal rights and interests of investors. Fundamental systems for the governance of SSE-listed companies have gradually taken shape. As repeatedly stated by Chairman Guo Shuqing of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) in public, companies' quality is decisive to the future of Chinese economy so multiple measures should be taken to ceaselessly rationalize the corporate governance structure of listed companies. Listed companies are the basis of the SSE's blue chip market and companies' quality is the cornerstone of the capital market, so the SSE has always regarded the rationalization of corporate governance as a major way to improve the quality of listed companies. According to resources, since the promulgation and implementation of the "Rules for Governance of Listed Companies" by the CSRC as early as in 2002 till the 10th forum on corporate governance last year, the SSE had tried every means to improve the governance structure of listed companies. For example, the SSE successively formulated relevant provisions and guidelines for the governance structure, the construction of the board of directors, the information disclosure, the connected transactions and the behaviors of controlling shareholders for listed companies, held influential forums on corporate governance, conducted exchanges on corporate governance and established the governance board for rationalizing the governance structure of the capital market and improving the quality of listed companies. Through years' efforts, the SSE has established basic frameworks and principles for the governance structure of listed companies. For instance, the SSE ushered in the system of independent directors for protecting rights and interests of minority shareholders, set up the board of supervisors for strengthening internal supervision of listed companies, rationalized the system of information disclosure, toughened the regulation on the usage of funds raised by listed companies, established the registration system for insiders of inside information and perfected the comprehensive prevention and control system for insider trading. After years' development, the governance of listed companies has embarked on the road of standardization and made historic achievements. Meanwhile, the governance and the transparency of listed companies on the A-stock market have been greatly improved. Internal control reports and social responsibility reports receive increasing attention. In recent years, with the more strict requirements for the quality of listed companies, the SSE has released some more policies on the establishment of internal control systems and the disclosure of social responsibility reports for listed companies to elevate their governance. The latest data show that by 2011, listed companies had made remarkable progress in the above-mentioned aspects, including the increase in the proportion of listed companies disclosing internal control reports, the increase in the number of disclosed social responsibility reports as well as good performances of independent directors in duties. On one hand, more listed companies have established the internal control system and disclosed internal control reports. The "SSE Guidelines for Internal Control of Listed Companies", issued by the SSE in June 2006, is the first document in China for guiding listed companies for the establishment and improvement of internal control systems, aiming to improve the quality of listed companies' internal control, strengthen their corporate governance, facilitate their establishment of effective and transparent supervision systems, reflect and elevate their corporate value and enhance their competitiveness. According to statistics, since the promulgation of the "Guidelines for Internal Control of Listed Companies" by the SSE in 2006 till the implementation of the basic standard for internal control in 2011, the number of listed companies disclosing internal control reports in annual reports increased from 34 in 2006 to 427 in 2011 with year-on-year increases witnessed. Moreover, a total of 258 SSE-listed companies employed an auditor to give verification and evaluation opinions on their internal reports in 2011. In addition, 933 companies filled in the basic information about the construction of internal control in the chapter of Corporate Governance Structure in their annual reports, 70.3% of which stated their established departments for the construction of internal control systems, up by nearly 20 percentage points compared with that in 2010. Thus, SSE-listed companies have made great strides in the disclosure of internal control reports. On the other hand, more listed companies have disclosed their social responsibility reports. The SSE has always pushed forward the compilation and release of social responsibility reports, and advocated the companies to perform their social responsibilities and apply the concept of social responsibility to production and operation. From 2008, the SSE has required three kinds of listed companies to be obliged to disclose social responsibility reports, namely, constituent companies in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector, companies issuing overseas listed foreign-funded shares and financial companies, should disclose how they perform social responsibilities. Besides, the SSE has encouraged eligible companies to disclose social responsibility reports. Statistics shows that since the issuance of the above-mentioned requirements till now, year-on-year increases can be seen in the number of listed companies for the disclosure of social responsibility reports. In 2011, a total of 351 SSE-listed companies disclosed social responsibility reports, up by 7% and 21% compared with that in 2010 and 290 in 2008 respectively. Among them, 296 companies were obliged to disclose social responsibility reports while 55 companies were voluntary to do that, a slight increase from 52 companies in 2010. Furthermore, blue-chip companies at various tiers demonstrate different characteristics in the disclosure of social responsibility reports. In particular, a large proportion of constituent companies in the SSE 180 Index disclosed their social responsibility reports with high quality, employed examination institutions and gradually integrated social responsibility in their daily operation, strategic decisions and core value concepts. The constituent companies in the SSE 380 Index got more involved in the voluntary disclosure of social responsibility reports, and became more active to disclose non-financial information and perform social responsibilities. What's more, independent directors of SSE-listed companies were well-performed in their duties. Statistics shows that by the end of 2011, a total of 2,908 independent directors had been in office in SSE-listed companies, who were supposed to attend 29,581 person-time directorate meetings during the reporting period of all independent directors. Actually, independent directors themselves attended 28,460 person-time meetings, authorized others to attend 977 person-time meetings and were absent from 73 person-time meetings, accounting for 96.21%, 3.30% and 0.24% of the total meetings, respectively. It can be seen that independent directors are satisfactory in the attendance of directorate meetings with a high rate of attendance in person. In terms of the distribution, among 2,908 sitting independent directors, 330 simultaneously take the position of Independent Director in two listed companies, accounting for 11.35% of the total independent directors while those simultaneously taking the position of Independent Director in three or more listed companies account for 4.44% of the total. Most independent directors hold a position in one or two listed companies, which guarantees enough time and energy for their duty-performing. The dividend distribution and investor relation management will be improved. Despite the achievements having been made, it is still no easy task to improve the governance of listed companies. Chairman Guo Shuqing pointed out at the 10th forum on corporate governance China held by the SSE last year that measures would be taken to improve the corporate governance in six aspects, including further strengthening the protection of legal rights and interests of investors and improving the transparency of listed companies. Thus, new requirements are put forward for the corporate governance at the current stage. The SSE is preparing for the issuance of new measures, including toughening the regulation on information disclosure for cash dividend distribution and the latest "Notice of Strengthening Investor Relation Management of Listed Companies". The protection of legal rights and interests of investors, as the principal function of corporate governance, has been highlighted by the regulatory authorities. Actually in recent years, the CSRC has made great efforts on protecting legal rights and interests of investors and timely punished various rule-breaking behaviors, including insider trading cases involving Huang Guangyu and Dong Zhengqing, market manipulation cases involving Wang Jianzhong and other major cases. To increase the return for investors, the CSRC released a series of policies for strengthening dividend distribution of listed companies, which has effectively protected legal rights and interests of investors. Although in recent years the market has been getting mature where listed companies have been making progress in the dividend distribution, especially in the stability of dividend distribution and the rate of return, it has a long way to go to become a real mature market as many listed companies are still too mean about dividend distribution. Therefore, the CSRC has worked out various rules and regulations for urging listed companies to specify the policies on dividend distribution, to raise the rate of return to investors' investments and to protect the rights and interests of investors. As the indication of improving the quality of the blue chip market, the SSE always attaches more importance to protecting the rights and interests of investors. For example, since this year, the SSE has enhanced investors' abilities of rational participation by launching special publicity activities and protected the rights and interests of investors through multi-channels such as cementing the supervision on the trading at the preliminary stage of new shares listing and taking risk-proof measures on the new shares speculation. In a bid to strengthen the protection to the rights and interests of investors, it is a must to further cement investors' subject positions to their rights and create conditions for ensuring investors' effective exercise of rights including those to know, vote, claim and appeal, in addition to toughening regulatory enforcement and resolutely cracking down on and punishing rule-breaking and faith-breaking activities that disorder the market and harm investors' legal rights and interests. Therefore, it is the key to intensify the supervision on the disclosure of the management of raised funds, dividend distribution and investor relations of listed companies and other aspects closely related to investors' all interests, for the purpose of protecting the interests of investors. According to sources, the SSE has recently released or plans to issue relevant policies in the near future, including those on strengthening the supervision on the disclosure of the cash dividend information and urging listed companies to focus on the investor relation management. Especially, the investor relation management has much room for improvement. As there always exists much room for improving the investor relation management of listed companies, the SSE, by taking a lot of new measures, will urge them to do a good job in this aspect, said an SSE official.

Notice on Further Strengthening Investor Relation Management of Listed Companies
18 Jun 2012
All listed companies, The investor relation management is of importance to strengthening listed companies' awareness of being public companies, protecting investors' legal rights and interests, ensure safe operation and functional realization of the securities market, advocating the philosophy of value investing and improving the market ecology. To further implement relevant provisions of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), direct and regulate the investor relation management of listed companies, strengthen the communication between listed companies and investors, protect legal rights and interests of investors, especially small and medium-sized investors, and promote the sound and stable development of the securities market, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), by referring to the laws such as the "Company Law" and the "Securities Law", regulations, the CSRC's relevant provisions and the "SSE Rules for Stock Listing" (hereinafter referred to as the "Listing Rules"), hereby notifies relevant issues as follows: First, a listed company should attach importance to and strengthen the investor relation management, set up necessary channels for communication in the investor relation management, build favorable mechanisms and platforms for the two-way communication with investors, and enhance investors' understanding of the company so as to maximize the company's overall interests. A listed company should be fair to all their investors in the investor relation management. Second, a listed company's board of directors should be responsible for formulating the working system of the investor relation management, while the board of supervisors of the company should supervise the implementation of the above system. The secretary to directorate of the company should be responsible for the work related to the investor relation management. Third, a listed company should guarantee that its external contact channels such as hotline, fax machine and e-mail box are unimpeded, ensure that special personnel answer the hotline during working hours, and provide relevant information in replies and feedback to investors through effective means. A listed company should publish the work in the replies and feedbacks to investors through the above channels at least once a quarter. Fourth, a listed company should establish an official website, and open a special column of the investor relation management on the website, for the purpose of collecting and replying to the questions and suggestions of investors and timely publishing and updating the information related to the investor relation management. Fifth, a listed company should facilitate the participation of small and medium sized shareholders in shareholders' meetings as well as their speaking and inquiring, and provide necessary time for the exchanges of investors with the company's directors, supervisors and senior management. Sixth, a listed company should facilitate small and medium sized shareholders paying site visits to, having discussions and communicating in the company, and properly and adequately arrange for the visits and discussions as well. Seventh, a listed company should make efforts to improve the effectiveness of information disclosure and enhance the readability of periodic reports and ad hoc reports. Eighth, if a listed company's major issues are highly concerned or questioned by the market, in addition to timely fulfilling the obligation of information disclosure in accordance with the Listing Rules, briefings should also be held on site, online or by other means so as to introduce the issues, explain the causes and reply to relevant questions. The listed company's chairman, general manager, secretary to the directorate, chief financial officer or other persons-in-charge should participate in the briefings. The SSE may require the listed company, which fails to hold briefings when the above cases occur, to hold a press conference when necessary. Ninth, if a listed company sees a remarkable drop of net profits over the previous year or distributes low cash dividend though it has the capability of dividend distribution, which are highly concerned or questioned by the market, the SSE encourages the company to conduct road shows online, offline or in other forms. Tenth, a listed company should organize trainings for the directors, supervisors, senior management and relevant personnel in the knowledge of laws and regulations, departmental regulations, the SSE's business rules and the investor relation management. Eleventh, in the investor relation management, a listed company shall avoid the following cases: (I) revealing significant information that has not been disclosed publicly; (II) carrying out excessive publicity that may mislead investors; (III) making predictions or promises publicly for the prices of the shares in the company; and (IV) other cases of violating the rules for information disclosure or being suspected of manipulating the share price. Twelfth, a listed company's implementation of the investor relation management will be included into the SSE's assessment on the secretary to the directorate. The SSE will supervise and inspect the implementation of the investor relation management of listed companies, and accept investors' complaints about the investor relation management of listed companies through the SSE's official website, hotline and other means. The SSE will take regulatory measures on the listed companies with impeded communicating channels with the investors, lots of complaints or other violations of the Notice. Thirteenth, the Notice shall come into effect as of the date of promulgation. June 18, 2012

SSE Holds Seminar on Innovation and Development of Fund Market
14 Jun 2012
With the varieties of securities investment funds exceeding 1,000, the current fund industry in China has entered the "1,000 kinds of funds" era. Under the backdrop of the innovation and development of the Chinese capital market, the fund industry also faces the significant breakthrough from quantitative to qualitative changes. On June 13, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held the seminar on "Innovation and Development of Fund Market" in a bid to further promote the innovation and development of the fund industry, give full play to the leading role of fund companies in guiding rational investment and creating healthy investment culture, as well as speed up the transformation of fund companies to modern wealth management institutions. The seminar attracted officials of over 20 fund management companies. It was pointed out at this seminar that the environment conducive to the innovation and development of the fund industry is taking shape currently. Firstly, under the backdrop of the easy monetary policy, residents call for wealth management due to a considerable amount of bank savings, which is not only the huge capital resource but also the intrinsic dynamic for the industry's development. Secondly, thanks to the more easy law and policy environment and the forthcoming amendment to the "Securities Investment Fund Law", the business scope of fund companies will be effectively expanded and the restrictions on the investment and operation will be unbound. Moreover, the official establishment of the China Securities Investment Fund Commission aiming at strengthening industry self-regulation and driving industry reform and innovation will guide the industry to create an innovation and development way suitable for China's actual conditions. Last but not least, with the increasingly mature investment concept in the capital market as well as the deeply-ingrained value investing and rational investment, more and more investors desire to share earnings from the growth of the capital market by professional investment and management, which contributed to providing widespread investors for the industry's development. According to the seminar, the market's overall valuation has been lingering at record low currently, which has fully revealed and discharged the risks and pressure in the process of structural transformation of China's economy, but has not reflected all the favorable opportunities and policies resulted from the economic transformation in the future. For the securities investment funds adhering to the concepts of value investing and long-term investment, it is a major strategic period for them to seek investment opportunities currently. It was stressed at the seminar that currently and in the next period, fund companies should complete their fundamental innovation work by strengthening the study on the macro-economic situation. It is a must to remain the confidence in the macro economy, recognize the improvement of the growth quality caused by the national economic transformation and structural adjustment, and witness the growth potential behind the unbalanced industrial and regional development. Only the product design of fund companies based on the scientific market analysis and the accurate judgment on the macro-economic situation can coincide with the orientation of the market development and the trend of the macro economy and earn trust from investors. As a professional investor, the whole fund industry should enhance its occupational quality, see hopes in the current difficulties and seek opportunities from risks, as well as seize the historic opportunity of low market valuation, with an aim of realizing the sound and sustainable development of the industry and building itself into a leader in the guidance for rational investment and value investing. Has always been attaching much importance to the innovation and development of the fund market, the SSE is sparing no efforts to build the fund market into a key hub radiating and connecting the stock, bonds, block commodities and derivatives markets. In the near future, the SSE will support the business innovation of fund companies from the three aspects as follows. Firstly, the SSE will standardize and simplify the procedures for innovation services for fund products. In addition to encouraging fund companies to conduct orderly competition in the existing areas like non-core index products in the openness and transparency principle, the SSE will also take proper measures to help fund companies carry out innovation businesses and develop innovative products such as currency, gold and bond ETF products. Secondly, the SSE will lift the supporting capacities of the trading systems and business platforms for the individualized and differentiated innovative products. Thirdly, for the purpose of consistently perfecting the trading system consistent with the traits of fund products, the SSE will optimize the trading mechanism, improve trading services, introduce liquidity service providers, expand the scope of margin trading and securities lending for ETFs and fuel the intra-day trading of ETF products.

SSE Market Closure Schedule for Dragon Boat Festival 2012
13 Jun 2012
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the Dragon Boat Festival 2012 in line with the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2012" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2011] No. 52). The SSE will close from June 22 (Friday) to June 24 (Sunday), and open for trading on June 25 (Monday). Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange June 4, 2012

Notice of Paper Solicitation for 3rd "SSE Legal Forum" also "On Securities Laws" (Volume VII)
13 Jun 2012
The emerging and transitional capital market in China witnesses the weak legal foundation on which the market integrity depends, the incomplete market mechanism, the imperfect accountability system of lawbreaking and faith-breaking and the inefficient integrity regulation. Lots of lawbreaking and faith-breaking behaviors could be seen in all the processes of the market operation. Due to the lack of integrity, investors' interests have been harmed and the sound development of capital market has been affected. Therefore, the legal and integrity construction is still a fundamental, systematic and long-term task in the development of the capital market. To promote relevant research, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will join hands with Peking University, Renmin University of China and East China University of Political Science and Law to hold the 3rd "SSE Legal Forum" with the theme of "Integrity and Legal Construction of Capital Market" at the end of 2012. The forum hereby solicits papers from experts and scholars in the theory and practice circles worldwide. A paper appraisal will be organized then, with the outstanding papers to be published in the "On Securities Law" (Volume VII; the publication is expected in November 2012). Contributions to the 3rd "SSE Legal Forum" will be regarded as contributions to the "On Securities Law" (Volume VII). Contributors should pay attention to the following issues: I. Scope of Papers Contributions are expected to be research papers on the theme of "Integrity and Legal Construction of Capital Market", with the proposed research directions and perspectives as follows: (I) Faith principle and legislation for the capital market With the continuous perfection of the legislation system of the capital market, the legal environment of the market integrity has been optimized and the faith principle has been confirmed in a series of important legislations for the capital market. Under the above background, contributors could evaluate the overall situation and specific aspects of the integrity legislations for the current capital market, summarize existing problems and fully discuss the specific implementation path of the faith principle in legislation concepts, systems and rules and even policy formulation for the capital market. (II) Integrity regulation system for listed companies With the continuous implementation of special governance of listed companies, listed companies have gradually formed integrity-oriented behavioral models and norms, which owed to the participation of passionate investor groups including institutional investors and small and medium-sized investors into corporate governance, the increasingly effective supervision on the behaviors of listed companies by the media, the short selling mechanism and the securities analysis industry, the continuous and effective supervision on the listed companies by the reformed and perfected delisting system, and the steadily standardized operation level of listed companies in China. Under the above background, the public has paid attention to issues including how to further strengthen the integrity norms of listed companies and prevent false statements, how to effectively ensure shareholders' rights to participate in corporate governance and how to standardize the emerging market-oriented constraint mechanism. (III) Integrity regulation system for intermediary service institutions As the "gatekeeper" of the capital market, the duty fulfillment of intermediary institutions is conducive to the improvement of the market integrity. Due to serious faith-breaking behaviors like PE corruption in many processes such as securities issuance, listing and trading as well as financial innovation caused by the worse integrity awareness of intermediary institutions in China's capital market, it is very urgent to institutionally strengthen the integrity norms of intermediary institutions. The system of integrity norms of intermediary institutions should cover the confirmation of integrity obligations of intermediary institutions, the internal control system for integrity supervision of intermediary institutions, the external reputation evaluation system of intermediary institutions, the interest conflict avoidance mechanism, the integrity selection mechanism and other aspects. (IV) Integrity regulation and system for investors The capital market in China is in the emerging and transitional phase, where speculation on new shares, small-cap stocks, bad-performed shares and short-term investment are serious; traditional rule-breaking activities including insider trading, short-swing trading, market manipulation and rat trading are still prevailing; rule-breaking activities including shareholder's rule-breaking holding of shares and abnormal changes of controlling rights that violate the principle of "Openness, Justice and Fairness" are still common. Under the above background, how to establish integrity norms for investors' behaviors and guide rational investment is of significance to the market's sound development. (V). Integrity regulation system for the capital market Administrative regulation is crucial for the integrity regulation system of the capital market. For years, the regulatory authorities have closely combined the integrity regulation and the legal system construction for a good result in the securities regulation. Self-regulatory management of the stock exchanges and other self-regulatory organizations are indispensable parts of the integrity regulation system of the capital market. As the domestic capital market is transforming from an emerging market to a mature one, it is necessary to conduct an overall research on how to give full play to the role of integrity in administrative regulation and self-regulatory management. The integrity regulation system of the capital market involves the legality of integrity records in administrative regulation and self-regulatory management, the evaluation on the integrity of market participants, the disclosure of integrity information and other important systems. Under such circumstances, it is of great practical value to take measures for further improving the efficiency of integrity regulation and protecting the legal rights and interests of market participants. (VI) Securities litigation and the capital market's integrity As one of important parts of integrity guarantee mechanism in the capital market, the litigation remedy will be granted to the securities market participants due to fraud and faith-breaking behaviors. Currently, the long-term absence of China's securities litigation has been considered as the weakness in the promotion of the integrity construction of the capital market. According to the current situation and requirements of the reform and innovation of the capital market, it is of high theoretical and practical values to study the securities litigation more pointedly and the perfect resolution mechanism for other non-litigation disputes in light of the actual situation of the domestic market, confirm the securities litigation evidence system suitable for electronic trading by establishing group litigation and perfecting shareholder representative litigation, and give full play to the vacancy-filling function of integrity in securities litigation. II. Contribution Deadline The end of September 2012 III. Requirements for Contributions 1. Scientific argumentation, sufficient evidence, rigorous logic, clear-cut structure and fluent expression are expected from the contributions. The market-oriented contributions with high academic quality and practical value are especially expected. About 10,000 characters are perfect for each contribution. Extraordinarily outstanding ones, however, will not be subject to the limit. 2. Please send your contributions, which comply with the national regulations on copyright, the generally accepted academic standards and the requirements specified in the "Layout Style" of the "On Securities Law" (Please refer to the "On Securities Law" and the "Research & Publication" column on the official website [www.sse.com.cn] of the SSE), to zqfy@sse.com.cn. 3. The editorial office of the journal reserves the right to make literary and technical amendments to the contributions. Articles published in the journal do not represent the stance of the SSE. Authors of the articles shall take all legal responsibilities in that regard. Except those with special statements, all the opinions expressed in the articles are personal and have nothing to do with the authors' positions or employers. 4. Contribution to the "On Securities Law" will be viewed as authorizing the journal to include the papers into the "Online Publishing Database of China Academic Journals", CNKI Series Database, chinalawinfo.com (Peking University Legal Information Network) Journal Database, Wanfang Database, and other academic resource databases recognized by the journal. The royalties paid by the journal to the authors include the copyright royalties of the above databases. Please specify any objections in your contributions so that the journal can make arrangements accordingly. 5. Contacts: Chen Yicong (Tel: 021-68800097) Wu Junqiao (Tel: 021-68805400) Wang Wenxin (Tel: 021-68801417) Shanghai Stock Exchange June 2012

New Expert Consultative Committee and Appraisal Result for Corporate Governance Sector Unveiled
12 Jun 2012
New Expert Consultative Committee and Appraisal Result for Corporate Governance Sector Unveiled   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently elected a new Expert Consultative Committee for SSE Corporate Governance Sector and re-evaluated the Sector. The new 11-member Committee, with Hu Ruyin taking the position of Chairman, consists of domestic experts and renowned scholars in the field of corporate governance research. Established in 2007, the Committee has devoted itself to providing consultation services and suggestions for decision-making for the appraisal of the SSE Corporate Governance Sector.   Meanwhile, the Committee re-assessed the SSE Corporate Governance Sector. In line with the “Appraisal Measures of SSE Corporate Governance Sector”, the SSE Corporate Governance Sector is finally formed through voluntary application of listed companies, public-opinion solicitation, comments by consultancies, primary selection and examination by the expert consultative committee. The Sector is re-appraised from May to June every year. In the re-evaluation, stocks in the 19 companies including China Eastern Airlines Corporation Limited and Bank of Beijing Co., Ltd. were added to the Sector, while stocks in the 6 companies including Guangxi Wuzhou Zhongheng Group Co., Ltd. and Jiangsu Kanion Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. were deleted. After the adjustment, the number of constituents of the Sector increases from 264 to 277.   According to the index rule, the SSE Corporate Governance Index, the SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index and the SSE Social Responsibility Index are adjusted accordingly upon the adjustment to the SSE Corporate Governance Sector. The constituents of the SSE Corporate Governance Index are made up of all the stocks in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector. Ten constituents of the SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index are replaced by adding stocks in the companies such as Bank of Beijing Co., Ltd. and China Oilfield Services Limited and deleting stocks in the companies such as Guangxi Wuzhou Zhongheng Group Co., Ltd. and Shanghai Electric Group Company Limited. Besides, ten constituents of the SSE Social Responsibility Index are replaced by adding stocks in the companies such as China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co., Ltd. and China State Construction Engineering Corporation Limited and deleting stocks in the companies such as Jiangsu Kanion Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and China Spacesat Co., Ltd. The adjustment will come into effect on July 2, 2012.   As of June 8, the total market capitalization of the new constituents of the SSE Corporate Governance Index, the SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index and the SSE Social Responsibility Index had been RMB10,047.1 billion, RMB8,577.7 billion and RMB4,974.9 billion, accounting for 64.32%, 54.92% and 31.85% of the total market capitalization of A shares on the SSE, respectively.   Twelve institutions that participated in the appraisal of the SSE Corporate Governance Sector are Guotai Junan Securities Co., Ltd., Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co., Ltd., China International Capital Corporation Limited, Haitong Securities Company Limited, Fortune SGAM Fund Management Co., Ltd., AEGON-INDUSTRIAL Fund Management Co., Ltd., E Fund Management Co., Ltd., CCB Principal Asset Management Co., Ltd., Bank of Communications Schroder Fund Management Co., Ltd., Research Center for Financial Engineering of Nanjing University, Pengyuan Credit Rating Co., Ltd. and China Chengxin Securities Rating Co., Ltd.     The List of Members of The New Expert Consultative Committee for SSE Corporate Governance   Name Title Hu Ruyin Director of the Capital Market Institute of the Development Research Center of the Shanghai Stock Exchange Chen Qiwei Board Chairman of Asia Business Consulting Co., Ltd. and Professor of Shanghai Jiao Tong University Li Xindan Dean and Professor of the School of Management and Engineering of Nanjing University Liu Zhong Deputy General Manager of China Securities Index Co., Ltd. Lu Tong Director of the Corporate Governance Center of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Lu Hongbing Director of Grandall Legal Group (Shanghai) Wang Wei Chairman of the China Mergers & Acquisitions Association Xie Rong Vice President of Shanghai National Accounting Institute Bu Deying Deputy Director of the Economic Forecasting Department of the State Information Center Yu Lifeng Chief Accountant of the Foreign Economic Cooperation Office of the Ministry of Environmental Protection Zhang Luyang Professor of the School of Economics of Fudan University

Adjustment List for SSE Corporate Governance Index, SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index and SSE Social Responsibility Index
12 Jun 2012
Adjustment List for SSE Corporate Governance Index, SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index and SSE Social Responsibility Index The following adjustment will be effective on July 2nd, 2012. Adjustment List for SSE Corporate Governance Index ： Deletion List Addition List Stock Code Stock Name Stock Code Stock Name 600087 Nanjing Tankerrporation 600109 Sinolink Securities 600163 Nanzhi, Fujian 600111 Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth(Group) Hi-Tech 600252 Guangxi Wuzhou Zhongheng Group 600115 China Eastern Airlinesrporation Limited 600392 Tiancheng of Taiyuan University of Technology 600377 Jiangsu Expresswaympany Limited 600557 Jiangsu Kanion Pharmaceutical 600546 Shanxial International Energy Group 600980 BGRIMM Materials & Techology 600704 Zhejiang Material Industrial Zhongda Yuantong Group     600873 Meihua Holdings Group     601000 Tangshan Port Group     601018 Ningbo Portmpany Limited     601098 China South Publishing & Media Group     601139 Shenzhen Gasrporation     601169 Bank of Beijing     601199 Jiangsu Jiangnan Water     601369 Xi'An Shaangu Power     601377 Industrial Securities     601800 Chinammunicationsnstructionmpany Limited     601808 China Oilfield Services Limited     601818 China Everbright Bank     601877 Zhejiang Chint Electrics Adjustment List for SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index Deletion List Addition List Stock Code Stock Name Stock Code Stock Name 600018 Shanghai International Port (Group) 600060 Hisense Electric 600252 Guangxi Wuzhou Zhongheng Group 600111 Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth(Group) Hi-Tech 600322 Tianjin Realty Development(Group) 600115 China Eastern Airlinesrporation Limited 600432 Jinlin Ji En Nickel Industry 600535 Tasly Pharmaceutical Group 600500 Sinochem Internationalrporation 600873 Meihua Holdings Group 600528 China Railway Erju 600970 Sinoma International Engineering 600595 Henan Zhongfu Industrial 601169 Bank of Beijing 600879 China Aerospace Times Electronics 601377 Industrial Securities 601727 Shanghai Electric Groupmpany Limited 601808 China Oilfield Services Limited 601866 China Shippingntainer Linesmpany Limited 601818 China Everbright Bank   Adjustment list for SSE Social Responsibility index Deletion List Addition List Stock Code Stock Name Stock Code Stock Name 600026 China Shipping Developmentmpany Limited 600029 China Southern Airlinesmpany Limited 600118 China Spacesat 600064 Nanjing Xingang High-Tech 600269 Jiangxi Ganyue Expressway 600067 Citychamp Dartong 600439 Henan Rebecca Hair Products 600284 Shanghai Pudong Road & Bridgenstructionmpany Limited 600550 Baoding Tianwei Baobian Electric 600619 Shanghai Highly (Group) 600557 Jiangsu Kanion Pharmaceutical 600739 Liaoning Cheng Da 600580 Wolong Electric Group 600886 SDIC Power Holdings 600616 Shanghai Jinfeng Winempany Limited 601169 Bank of Beijing     601601 China Pacific Insurance (Group)     601668 China Statenstruction Engineeringrporation Limited   Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 2012.06.12

First SMEs Private Placement Bonds Go Public
12 Jun 2012
The first non-public transfer of SMEs private placement bonds was rounded off on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE). The first SMEs private placement bonds succeeded in going public on June 11. The SMEs private placement bonds 2012 of Suzhou Huadong Coating Glass Co., Ltd., with Soochow Securities Co., Ltd. as the underwriter, were completely issued at 10:00 on June 8 and listed on the SSE at 09:00 on June 11. Thus, the bonds valued RMB50 million, with the short description of "12 Suzhou Coating" and the bond code of "125000", became the first SMEs private placement bonds going public on the exchange. The SSE would provide the non-public transfer services for the bonds from June 11 onwards. On June 11, the first transfer of "12 Suzhou Coating" bonds listed on the SSE's comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities was completed, with the face value of transferred bonds reaching RMB1 million. It was the first non-public transfer business of SMEs private placement bonds on the exchange.

SSE, CSI Set up New Index Expert Committee
12 Jun 2012
SSE, CSI Set up New Index Expert Committee   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently elected a new Index Expert Committee. The new Committee, with Wu Weicong taking the position of Chairman, consists of ten experts and renowned scholars in fields of domestic and foreign index compilation, index investment and market research, among whom five are domestic members and five from abroad.   Since its founding, the Index Expert Committee has made outstanding contributions to the establishment of the SSE and CSI index systems and the development of the index-related business, ensuring fair and scientific indices and playing an important role in expanding the market influence and the credibility of the SSE and CSI indices. Up to now, the number of the SSE and CSI indices has hit 120 and 300 respectively. Besides, the number of index products developed on the basis of the SSE and CSI indices has amounted to 171, including 126 domestic products and 45 overseas ones, with the total asset size up to about RMB300.7 billion.   The List of Members of The New Index Expert Committee   Name Title Wu Weicong Former Vice Chairman of the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, Advisor to the China Securities Regulatory Commission Leong Ka-Chai Chairman of Roctec Securities Company Limited Justin Pascoe Investment Director of Victorian Funds Management Corporation Mohammed Apabhai Head of Asia-Pacific Trading Strategy Division of Citigroup Global Markets Asia Limited Jane Leung Head of iShares Asia Pacific of BlackRock Asset Management North Asia Limited Liu Huimin President of China Life Insurance Asset Management Co., Ltd. Lin Yixiang Board Chairman of Tianxiang Investment and Consulting Co., Ltd. Xu Guoxiang Doctoral Supervisor and Director of the Research Center for Applied Statistics of Shanghai University of Finance and Economics Peng Gang Vice President of the China Futures Association Zhan Yuyin Director of the Global Investment Department of the National Council for Social Security Fund    

Adjustment List for SSE 180, SSE 50, SSE 380 and Other SSE Indices
11 Jun 2012
Adjustment List for SSE 180, SSE 50, SSE 380 and Other SSE Indices The following adjustments will be effective on July 2nd, 2012.   Adjustment List for SSE 180 index: Deletion List Addition List Stock Code Stock Name Stock Code Stock Name 600064 Nanjing Xingang High-Tech 600011 Huaneng Power International 600311 Gansu Ronghua Industry Group 600060 Hisense Electric 600322 Tianjin Realty Development 600072 CSSC Jiangnan Heavy Industry 600432 Jinlin Ji En Nickel Industry 600143 Kingfa Sci.&Tech. 600509 Xinjiang Tianfu Thermoelectric 600251 Guannong Fruit & Antler Group 600595 Henan Zhongfu Industrial 600340 China Fortune Land Development 600622 Shanghai Jiabao Industry &Commerce 600373 Chinese Universe Publishing and Media 600660 Fuyao Glass Industry Group 600503 Deluxe Family 600737 Cofco Tunhe 600535 Tasly Pharmaceutical Group 600812 North China Pharmaceuticalmpany 600636 Shanghai 3F New Materialsmpany 600832 Shanghai Oriental Pearl (Group) 600970 Sinoma International Engineering 600879 China Aerospace Times Electronics 600971 Hengyuanal Industry and Electricity Power 600884 Ningbo Shanshan 601336 New China Life Insurancempany 601018 Ningbo Portmpany Limited 601555 Soochow Securities 601268 China Erzhong Group Heavy Industries 601633 Great Wall Motormpany Limited 601718 Jihua Grouprporation 601669 Sinohydro. Group, 601866 China Shippingntainer Linesmpany 601901 Founder Securities 601888 China International Travel Servicerporation 601928 Jiangsu Phoenix Publishing&Mediarporation   Adjustment List for SSE 50 index: Deletion List Addition List Stock Code Stock Name Stock Code Stock Name 600089 TBEA 600256 Xinjiang Guanghui Industry 600383 Gemdalerporation 600887 Inner Mongolia Yili Industrial 601111 Air China Limited 601669 Sinohydro. Group 601168 Western Mining 601901 Founder Securities   Adjustment List for SSE 380 index: Deletion List Addition List Stock Code Stock Name Stock Code Stock Name 600011 Huaneng Power International 600021 Shanghai Electric Powermpany 600020 Henan Zhongyuan Expresswaympany 600039 Sichuan Road&Bridge 600035 Hubei Chutian Expressway 600184 North Electro-Optic 600060 Hisense Electric 600185 Gree Real Estate 600072 CSSC Jiangnan Heavy Industry 600199 Anhui Golden Seed Winery 600087 Nanjing Tankerrporation 600240 Beijing Huaye Realestate 600119 Y.U.D.Yangtze River Investment Industry 600318 Anhui Chaodong Cement 600143 Kingfa Sci.&Tech. 600322 Tianjin Realty Development 600173 Wolong Real Estate Group 600337 Markor International Furniture 600206 Grinm Semiconductor Materials 600432 Jinlin Ji En Nickel Industry 600218 Anhui Quanchai Engine 600509 Xinjiang Tianfu Thermoelectric 600222 Henan Taloph Pharmaceutical Stock 600537 Eging Photovoltaic Technology 600238 Hainan Yedao 600595 Henan Zhongfu Industrial 600251 Xinjiang Guannong Fruit & Antler 600622 Shanghai Jiabao Industry &mmerce 600273 Huafang Textile 600633 Zhe Jiang Daily Media Group 600297 Merro Pharmaceutical 600635 Shanghai Dazhong Public Utilities 600305 Jiangsu Hengshun Vinegar-Industry 600637 BesTV New Media 600373 Chinese Universe Publishing and Media 600638 Shanghai New Huang Pu Real Estate 600392 Tiancheng of Taiyuan University of Technology 600660 Fuyao Glass Industry Group 600503 Deluxe Family 600737 Cofco Tunhe 600529 Shandong Pharmaceutical Glass 600784 Luyin Investment Group 600535 Tasly Pharmaceutical Group 600807 Shandong Tyan Home 600540 Xinjiang Sayram Modern Agriculture 600832 Shanghai Oriental Pearl 600567 Anhui Shanying Paper Industry 600862 TONTEC Technology Investment 600590 Tellhow Sci-Tech 600867 Tonghua Dongbao Pharmaceutical 600620 Shanghai Tianchen 600879 China Aerospace Times Electronics 600621 Shanghai Jinling 600975 Hunan New Wellful 600636 Shanghai 3F New Materialsmpany 601011 Qitaihe Baotailongal Coal & Coal Chemicals 600708 Shanghai Haibo 601018 Ningbo Portmpany Limited 600814 Hangzhou Jiebai Group,Limited. 601058 Sailun 600819 Syp Glass Group 601100 Jiangsu Hengli Highpressure Oil Cylinder 600836 Shanghai Jielong Industry Group 601222 Jiangsu Linyang Electronics 600853 Longjian Road&Bridge 601636 Zhuzhou Kibing Group 600865 Baida Group 601677 Henan Mingtai Al.Industrial 600961 Zhuzhou Smelter Group 601718 Jihua Grouprporation Limited 600970 Sinoma International Engineering 601886 Beijing Jangho Curtain Wall 600971 Anhui Hengyuanal Industry and Electricity Power 601888 China International Travel Servicerporation 600973 Baosheng Science and Technology Innovation 601908 Beijing Jingyuntong Technology   Rebalance Lists   Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. June 11, 2012  

SSE Establishes News Spokesman System and Official Micro-blog
08 Jun 2012
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) announced on June 7 that a news spokesman system was established and put into soft operation with a view to implementing the requirements of Chairman Guo Shuqing of the China Securities Regulatory Commission for improving the openness of administrative affairs and the transparency of regulation. Thus, the SSE becomes the first among all the domestic exchanges to establish the news spokesman system. On the same day, "SSE Release", the SSE's official micro-blog, went online on people.com.cn, xinhuanet.com, qq.com and sina.com.cn and proceeded into soft operation to support the news spokesman system. SSE Vice President Xu Ming said, "The news spokesman system and the official micro-bog are established in respond to the objective demands of the capital market and the SSE for openness and transparency. According to sources, the "SSE News Spokesman System" was discussed and approved at the SSE presidents' office meeting. In the system, the work principles, job responsibilities, organizational structure, news release content and procedure as well as other issues are defined. According to the system, the main responsibilities of an SSE spokesperson include coordinating with and guiding for the preparation and implementation of news release, examining news release proposals, news releases and principles for questions & answers and reporting them to President or Executive Vice Presidents for approval, presiding over news conferences, and publicly releasing news, statements and relevant important information on behalf of the SSE. As stipulated in the system, the main forms of the SSE news release include annual general news conferences, news conferences at the beginning of each year, emergency news conferences, daily news conferences for hot topics and hard nuts closely followed by the market and the media, media-oriented exchange meetings, media-oriented theme exchange meetings and others. During the soft operation, the SSE will hold at least a news conference quarterly on a regular basis. The SSE's official micro-blog "SSE Release" serves as a brand-new platform for the SSE and all the market participants to share information and interact with each other, which will be sure to become one of the fastest and most effective ways for the SSE to connect the market. During the soft operation, "SSE Release" mainly focuses on the following four aspects: publishing the updates of the SSE's key tasks, linking the SSE's investor education website and publishing news and activities related to investor education, clarifying rumors in the market to reduce the negative impact of false information on the market, and releasing other information of the SSE. According to Xu Ming in an interview yesterday, the SSE has been devoted to the openness and transparency of administrative affairs and carried on improving the transparency of self-regulation and the openness of various services. The established news spokesman system and the opened micro-blog greatly promote the openness and transparency of the SSE's work, reflecting the SSE's commitment to building an open and transparent securities market. The systems will help to further increase the transparency of the market, enhance the public's right to know, strengthen the communication between the SSE and all the market participants and continuously improve the openness of the SSE and its market, thus elevating the credibility of the SSE among all the market participants.

SSE 180 Sector Indices To Be Launched
08 Jun 2012
To further enhance the SSE index family as well as to provide new analysis tools and underlying instruments for investors, SSE and CSI together announced that the SSE 180 Sector Indices would be launched on June 29, 2012. Regarding the methodology and more details of the above indices, please refer to the official website of SSE ( www.sse.com.cn ) and the official website of CSI (www.csindex.com.cn) respectively. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. June 8, 2012 [SSE 180 Sector Indices Methodology]     [Constituents List]   

SSE, CSI Update Industry Classification of Listed Companies
08 Jun 2012
Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently published the adjusted industry classification of A-share listed companies on the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange according to the annual reports of 2011. The adjustment involves 63 A-share listed companies. For the results of industry classification, please refer to the SSE website (www.sse.com.cn) or the CSI website (www.csindex.com.cn). The adjustment will take effect on July 2, 2012.

SSE to Issue First Batch of SMEs Private Placement Bonds
08 Jun 2012
The SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange have signed a memorandum of cooperation in the issuance of private placement bonds with the Shanghai Municipal Government and other local governments. The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) received from several SMEs the filing applications for the issuance of private placement bonds after the release of "SSE's Tentative Measures for SMEs Private Placement Bonds". On June 7, the SSE decided to accept the filing materials of seven issuers and issued them the "Receipt for Acceptance of Filing Materials" through preliminary examination. At present, a check on the completeness of the filing materials is underway and the first batch of SMEs private placement bonds will soon come out. The seven enterprises whose filing applications were accepted, involving cultural media, high and new technologies and manufacturing, have applied for issuing private placement bonds valued from RMB20 million to RMB100 million. The launch of SMEs private placement bonds is a new try in the bond market, aiming to mitigate the financing problems of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Although the SSE performs the duty of offering filing and non-public transfer services for SMEs private placement bonds, it provides no substantial judgment, commitment and guarantee for the issuers' credit and the risks of relevant bonds. As regards SMEs private placement bonds, a type of debenture bonds with high risks and weak liquidity, the market participants should have strong awareness of risk and good capability of risk management. Investors of SMEs private placement bonds should know clearly about the risks, conduct suitable investments based on risk appetite and tolerance capacity, price reasonably for risks in private placement bonds, identify and judge risks independently, and bear risks by themselves. The SSE will keep on laying equal emphasis on the development of the stock market and the bond market and expanding the services provided by the capital market for the real economy, especially micro, small and medium-sized enterprises as well as private enterprises, in an effort to contribute to the sound and sustained development of national economy.

SSE Keeps Tightening Market Integrity and Rule of Law and Improving Openness of Self-Regulation
08 Jun 2012
Serial Reports (IV) on SSE's Implementation of CSRC's Various Measures on Scientific Development of Securities Market As the primary one of the three principles of "equality, fairness and openness" for the capital market, openness embodies the fundamental requirements for the capital market of transparency and standardization, orderly operation and sound development while the construction of integrity and legal system serves as the institutional guarantee for the promotion of the openness of the capital market. At present, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) has put greater emphasis on the openness and marketization of the supervision over the capital market, focused on improving the transparency of the supervision and tightened the constraints in integrity and rule of law for the capital market. As the self-regulating organization bearing the function of supervising the front-line capital market, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has earnestly implemented the requirements with the aim of being more open and more transparent, focusing on giving play to the role of integrity and rule of law in constraining and constantly improving the openness of the self-regulating supervision on the basis of the fulfillment of the front-line supervision. It is firstly reflected in the SSE energetically strengthening the constraints of integrity and legal system and promoting the open operation of the capital market. It has increasingly become the consensus of the market players to strengthen the supervision and constraints on the integrity on the market and continuously improve the integrity and the legal system of the market. During the most recent period, in accordance with the requirements of the CSRC and with the value orientation toward the principle of integrity and credibility, the SSE has made efforts to enhance the internal and external construction of the legal system, promote the open and transparent operation of the market and constantly improve the integrity building of the overall market by focusing on the following three aspects. First, efforts have been made to strengthen the standardized and transparent operation of the listed companies. Since 2011, the SSE has timely amended the "Detailed Implementation Rules for Online Voting of Shareholders' Meeting of Listed Companies" to include the frequent problems in the use of the excessively raised funds and the connected transaction, etc. in the scope of online voting in response to the development of the market; the SSE has formulated the "Guidance for Listed Companies Implementing Connected Transactions" to detail the process of the decision-making in and disclosure of the listed companies' connected transactions and make strict requirements for the disclosure and decision-making in major connected transactions; the SSE has formulated the "Notice on the Issues Related to Standardizing the Use and Management of the Excessively Raised Funds of Listed Companies", stipulating that the use of RMB100 million or above or more than 10 % of the excessively raised funds must be submitted to the shareholders' meeting for deliberation; the SSE has formulated the "Code of Conduct for Shareholding Increase by Listed Companies' Shareholders and Their Concerted Actors" and the "SSE Measures for Regulation of Listed Companies' Secretaries to Directorates" in a bid to strengthen the responsibility for integrity of the controlling shareholders and actual controllers and the loyal and diligent obligations of the directors, supervisors and executives, and tighten the supervision over the standardized and transparent operation of the directorate meetings, board of supervisors meetings and shareholders' meetings of the listed companies. In addition, in order to urge the listed companies' rewards for their shareholders, the SSE has formulated the "Guidance for Cash Dividend of Listed Companies" so as to encourage, direct and urge the listed companies to set up the sustained, clear and transparent decision-making mechanism for dividends and the policies for cash dividends. Currently, the SSE is amending the "Guidance for Governance of Listed Companies" in a bid to further strengthen the listed companies' awareness of public companies and transparent operation, and direct the listed companies to transform the external pressure of the rules of corporate governance to their internal needs. Second, the SSE has tightened the supervision and cracking-down on the market conducts of rules violation and discredit. The SSE has focused on strengthening the investigation into the responsibilities of the listed companies for the conducts of violation and discredit in information disclosure, connected transactions, the directors, supervisors and executives and major shareholders violating the rules to trade the shares of their own companies and the major shareholders failing to honor their commitments, etc.; the SSE has deepened the implementation of the requirements of the CSRC for effectively curbing the excessive speculation on new shares, energetically cracking down on the conducts of speculating on new shares by tightening the whole-process supervision prior to, during and after the course of the trading of new shares in a bid to promote the coordinated and sound development of the primary and secondary markets. In this process, the SSE has exercised the authority of self-regulating according to the laws, taken timely regulatory measures and carried out disciplinary action. From January to May, 2012, in the regulation of the listed companies, the SSE issued 19 letters of regulatory concern and 47 inquiry letters, and offered the disciplinary sanctions of circulation of notices of criticism and public censure to 22 listed companies and their directors, supervisors, executives, shareholders and actual controllers. In the market monitoring, in vigorous response to the reform of the issuance system of the capital market, since 2012 the SSE has issued more than 2,000 verbal warnings and 198 written warning letters for the accounts with abnormal conducts in the trading of new shares, taken the measures of suspending the in-session trading of the day for 18 accounts with relatively seriously abnormal trading conducts, and implemented the disciplinary action of restricting trading for 3 accounts frequently participating in the speculation on new shares. Third, pains have been taken to speed up consolidating the foundation for the integrity building. According to the deployment of the CSRC, the SSE has set up and constantly optimized and improved the independent data base for integrity records, strengthening the accuracy and completeness in collecting the information and data of integrity and improving the efficiency in submitting the information. Since 2012, the SSE has continued to enrich the varieties of the integrity information in the practice of regulation, expanding the scope and levels of the integrity information by gradually adding the positive integrity information such as rewarding, commending and appraising as well as the regulatory information such as "regulatory concerns" and "media publicity" to the data base, and constantly cementing the grounds for the market regulation. Up to now, the data base of integrity of the SSE has found the input of more than 1,290 pieces of effective information and the submission of more than 840 pieces of information to the data base of integrity of the CSRC with the number ranking high in the system. On the basis of building the integrity platform, the SSE has attached great importance to the use of the integrity information including the use in the normal regulation such as the disciplinary action and the use of the integrity status of the regulation objects as the reference for the examination of the Disciplinary Committee; the SSE has vigorously researched and explored the role of the integrity records for constraining, encouraging and directing in the market development and innovated businesses, and has taken the integrity records of the applicants as one of the assessment criteria for access in investor suitability management and the innovated businesses such as ETF index authorization, agreed repurchase trading and collateralized repo. On the other hand, the SSE has played an exemplary role in fulfilling its duties according to the laws and improving the openness of the self-regulation. At the national conference on the regulation of securities and futures held at the beginning of the year, President Guo Shuqing of the CSRC pointed out that the system of the CSRC system should take the lead to exercise integrity and effectively promote the openness of the regulation. As the front-line regulator of the market, the SSE has taken the improvement of the transparency of market and the enhancement of openness and transparency of the regulation as inevitable requirements for institutionalizing the self-regulation as well as specific presentation of the exemplary exercise of integrity of the SSE. To this end, on the basis of the effective methods for open regulation taken previously, the SSE has made efforts to strengthen the open self-regulation in the four aspects of the formulation of the rules, the regulatory process, the regulatory criteria and the regulatory results. First, the SSE has enhanced the openness of the process of formulating the rules. In formulating the business rules, the SSE had been putting emphasis on listening to the opinions of the objects of regulation, the stakeholders and other market players; the SSE has improved the pertinence and adaptability of the rules as well as the authority over the regulation through the open procedures of rule formulation and resolution. For example, in the public opinion soliciting for the plans of the delisting system of listed companies that ended not long ago, the SSE specially organized two seminars for soliciting opinions, listening to the opinions of the professionals of 11 market institutions and relevant front-line regulators of 9 securities regulatory bureaus, collecting a total of more than 320 feedback mails and 1,157 online questionnaires, and making the special analysis report for feedback opinions. Besides, the rational parts of the feedback opinions have been adopted in the delisting plan and the attached business rules. In the course of drafting the newly promulgated measures and business guidance for pilots related to the private placement bonds of SMEs, the SSE solicited the opinions of the market organizations such as securities companies, guarantee companies and credit rating agencies and some local governments, and improved the pilot plans on the basis of the opinions of all the parties. Currently, the SSE has amended the "Measures for Formulating Business Rules", stipulating that the opinions from the market should be solicited in formulating and amending the business rules having significant impact on the development, innovation and regulation of the market, so as to implement the open formulation of rules in the realm of the system. Second, the SSE has strengthened the openness of the standards, experiences and measures of the regulation. In response to the requirements for the openness and transparency of the regulation of the capital market, recently, the SSE has focused on the crystallization and summarization of the relatively stable experience, measures and guidelines in the practice of regulation and has timely published the results in the market. For example, in order to effectively regulate the speculation on trading new shares, the SSE promulgated the "SSE Notice of Toughening Supervision on Trading at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing" and the "Notice of Strengthening Supervision on Clients' Trading Behaviors at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing" on March 8, 2012; according to the practices and experience in recent years, the SSE reduced the price fluctuation range for in-session temporary trading suspension to 10% and 20% in addition to newly adding the indicators of turnover rate for in-session temporary trading suspension and 6 standards for determining the "abnormal conducts in trading new shares" which are concerned by the market. The openness of the regulatory indicators not only provides the code of conduct for the market players but also is conducive to the formation of clear-cut regulatory anticipation on the market. Another example is that the SSE issued the "Guidance for Risk Control in Collateralized Repo Transactions of Bonds" and the "Business Guidance for Operation Risk Management of Exchange Traded Funds (ETF) Management Companies", summing up and sorting out the risks of new businesses and new products in the course of the piloting and the preliminary operation and directing and standardizing the operation of the innovated businesses of the market players. Recently, the SSE is further optimizing, improving and amending the business guidance and operation manual for regulation of information disclosure of listed companies and setting about rationalizing the operation process of the regulatory business in the SSE, which will be published in the market in appropriate ways. Third, the SSE has strengthened the openness of the regulatory procedures. In the openness of the regulatory procedures, though the SSE has published the operation procedures of the Disciplinary Committee, the Listing Committee and the Committee of Review which are the most related to the interests of the objects of the regulation in the form of the business rules, the procedures are still not complete and detailed enough and some of the procedures of the regular regulation measures are not clear enough. In the future, the SSE will further detail and perfect the procedures and in the course of exercising the regulatory authority the SSE will attach greater importance to listening to the opinions of the objects of the regulation. Currently, the SSE is improving the procedures related to listing approval and the review of self-regulation as well as the examination standard of disciplinary punishment, which will be published to the market in due time. In addition, in response to the volatile regulatory circumstances in the new market conditions, the SSE will also enhance the information disclosure in the process of dealing with the widely concerned and emergent regulatory events and set up a set of more open, stable and efficient response mechanism so as to enable the market to verify "the market has reflections and the regulators have responses". Fourth, the SSE has strengthened the openness of the regulatory results. In the openness of the regulatory results, the SSE has explored and taken some effective measures. Recently, in response to the regulatory circumstances of the constantly issued new policies and rapid changing of the fundamental market systems, the SSE has sped up the disclosure of the regulatory results, transferring timely to the market the regulation information that will have significant impact on the decision-making of the investors for investment. For example, in early 2011, the SSE timely conveyed and publicized the regulation policies to the market through the publication of the annual white paper of regulation which systematically summarizes and analyzes the self-regulation and management in the year. Recently, with view to the widely concerned problem of speculation on new shares, the SSE has timely published the in-session temporary trading suspensions of relevant accounts and the ex-post restrictions in trading of several accounts on the media, which function well in deterring and warning. Next, the SSE will also further explore the range and procedures of disclosing the regulatory results of different natures and types with all the stricter regulatory decisions to be disclosed to the market; considering the hot issues of the market and the key regulatory areas, the SSE will strengthen the adoption of the typical cases and the publicity in the efforts of investor education.

Notice of Soliciting Public Opinions on "Notice (Draft Version) of Strengthening Regulation on Abnormal Stock Trading Related to Significant Assets Reorganization of Listed Companies"
08 Jun 2012
All market participants, To strengthen the regulation on information disclosure and stock trading related to the significant assets reorganization of listed companies, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the "Notice (Draft Version) of Strengthening Regulation on Abnormal Stock Trading Related to Significant Assets Reorganization of Listed Companies" as a supporting document for implementing the "Interim Provisions (Draft Version) on Regulation on Abnormal Stock Trading Related to Significant Assets Reorganization of Listed Companies"（by CSRC）. The SSE hereby solicits opinions on the notice from the public. Please send your opinions or suggestions on the notice to the SSE in written form or by e-mail before July 8, 2012. Fax: 021-68811782 E-mail: listing@sse.com.cn Mailing address: The Company Management Department of the Shanghai Stock Exchange, 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120 Shanghai Stock Exchange June 8, 2012

Issuance of First SMEs Private Placement Bonds Rounded off
08 Jun 2012
The issuance of the first SMEs private placement bonds was rounded off. This morning, Suzhou Huadong Coating Glass Co., Ltd. completed the issuance of SMEs private placement bonds valued RMB50 million with Soochow Securities Co., Ltd. as the underwriter. The two-year bonds, with the interest paid annually at the interest rate of 9.5%, were guaranteed by Suzhou Guofa Small & Medium Enterprises Guarantee Investment Co., Ltd. The issuer of the bonds applied for filing to the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) on June 7 and received the "Notice on Acceptance of Filing" from the SSE on June 8.

Announcement on Adjustment to Underlying Securities of Margin Trading, Securities Lending
01 Jun 2012
Announcement on Adjustment to Underlying Securities of Margin Trading, Securities Lending   According to the “SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Margin Trading and Securities Lending” and the “Notice of Taking ETFs as Underlying Securities of Margin Trading and Securities Lending” (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2012] No. 66), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will adjust the list of underlying securities of margin trading and securities lending on June 4, 2012.   The following securities will be added into the list of underlying securities:   Number Securities Code Ticker Symbol 1 510300 300 ETF     Shanghai Stock Exchange   June 1, 2012

SSE Boosts Cultivation of Blue Chip Market
01 Jun 2012
The SSE focuses on structural transformation for serving the real economy. In the recent seminar on "Construction of Blue Chip Market and Guidance for Rational Investment", the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) announced to inject new blood into the blue chip market by further optimizing its structural layout, in a bid to provide enough targets and platforms for rational investment and value investing. However, in fact, thanks to development for many years, the SSE's blue chip market has made great achievements in the market scale, the services for the real economy and other aspects. Besides, the structural layer of the SSE's multi-tiered blue chip market, whose growth focuses on potential blue chips, rising blue chips and typical blue chips, has been further defined. According an SSE official, as the current Chinese economy is at the stage of "Adjusting Economic Structure and Changing Growth Pattern", the SSE will continuously strengthen the services for the structural transformation of national economy, private enterprises and SMEs in the future, thus reflecting the supports of the blue chip market for the real economy. The SSE has basically established the multi-tiered blue chip market and seen smaller-share-number IPOs year by year. At the recent conference for the founding of the 14th Public Offering Review Committee of Main Board, Chairman Guo Shuqing of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) said that it was a must to take the opportunity in the market reform and development to properly speed up the reform in the key areas and processes. In addition, Chairman Guo also mentioned an array of requirements including those of cultivating institutional investors as well as speeding up the improvement of the multi-tiered market system construction in his speech. As the organizer of the capital market, the SSE has put great efforts in constructing and cultivating the blue chip market, promoting the development and perfection of the multi-tiered capital market and enhancing the capital market's capability of serving the real economy. Upon many years of development, the SSE's blue chip market has made great achievements in the market scale, the services for the real economy and other aspects. On one hand, with the steady increase in the number of listed companies and the expansion of financing scale, the total capitalization of stock market exceeded RMB16 trillion, ranking the second in Asia and the sixth in the world. On the other hand, the SSE constantly richened the content and extension of serving the real economy, including serving state-owned enterprises and private ones, supporting listing of large enterprises and that of SMEs and promoting the structural adjustment and industrial upgrading of listed companies by reorganization, merger and acquisition while helping enterprises enter the "fast development lane" through IPO. Upon several years of efforts, the structural layer of the SSE's multi-tiered blue chip market, whose growth focuses on potential blue chips, rising blue chips and typical blue chips, has been further defined, and the capability of providing effective financing services for the real economy of different scales and types at various growth stages has been further improved. According to data, during 2010 and 2011, a total of 65 enterprises conducted their IPOs on the SSE's market and the financing scale totaled RMB291.3 billion, realizing drastic increase compared with the data during 2008 and 2009. At the same time, the SSE's market gradually showed features such as wider industrial coverage, more diversified geographical distribution, increasing proportion of listed private enterprises and smaller-share-number IPO. For instance, more and more enterprises in the industries including the strategic emerging industry (represented by companies like Sinovel Wind Group Co., Ltd. and Beijing Jingyuntong Technology Co., Ltd.), the cultural industry (represented by companies including People's Daily Online Co. Ltd.) and the service industry (represented by companies such as Jointown Pharmaceutical Group Co., Ltd.) have been listed on the SSE. Besides, among 65 companies listed in 2010 and 2011, 54% are private ones and most being-examined companies choosing to be listed on the SSE are private ones. In addition, the SSE has seen smaller-share-number IPOs year by year via strengthening the services for SMEs. For example, in 2011, enterprises, whose total issued shares were between RMB50 million and RMB80 million, accounted for one third of total 39 IPO enterprises of the SSE in the whole year. Up to now, according to the listing and applying of the SSE in 2012, the enterprises whose issuance scales positioned at the aforesaid range accounted for about one third. In 2011, the median of IPO scales of 39 IPO enterprises of the SSE was 100 million shares while that has been 86.67 million shares so far in 2012, realizing drastic decrease compared with 282 million shares in 2008 and 520 million shares in 2009. Concerning the reasons for these achievements and changes, an SSE official said, "As the Chinese economy is at a crucial stage for adjusting the economic structure and changing the growth pattern currently, the development of the real economy urgently needs a diversified capital market. The SSE should take this good opportunity to strengthen the services for the structural transformation of the national economy, private enterprises and SMEs, thus reflecting the supports of blue chip market to the real economy." The SSE follows closely the real economy and innovates in service mode. In a bid to better serve the real economy and further improve the securities and futures market services against economic weaknesses including development of enterprises related to agriculture, rural areas and farmers, cultural and creative industry and SMEs, the SSE strengthened the support of the national economy to the economic weaknesses and enhanced the connection of the capital market with key industries including the scientific innovation industry, the modern agriculture and the cultural industry by carrying out market services and cultivation work at the front line, visiting provinces clustering private enterprises and SMEs and other ways. Focusing on the development goal of the multi-tiered blue chip market, the SSE emphasized on the strategic significance of market services to the development of the blue chip market. Upon several years of efforts, the SSE has gradually formed a systematic structure of market services by boosting the service intensity, improving the service quality, broadening the service objects and changing the service means. According to sources, the SSE established the Offering and Listing Department in 2008, a functional department for market services; in this year, the SSE established the training service center for enterprises to focus on trainings for enterprises' restructuring. The SSE also adjusted the system of its Research Center, for the purpose of strengthening the research and counseling on the issues of planned-to-be-listed enterprises. In this process, centering on the principle of "stepping out", the SSE extended the frontier of services and selected the backbone in the whole exchange to carry out the market services and cultivation work at the front line. For instance, from 2010 to 2011, the SSE's market service personnel visited 1,900 front-line enterprises, which covered all provinces, municipalities, autonomous regions and 80% prefecture-level cities in China; concerning the common issues in the process of corporate restructuring for listing, the SSE had totally held nearly 50 seminars and training classes. The SSE's services covered townships, towns and villages of Jiangsu, Zhejiang and other regions clustering private enterprises and SMEs. In addition, it is also an important channel to carry out well-targeted professional services by establishing the cooperative mechanism with local governments and market intermediaries. In recent two years, the SSE has newly signed memorandums of cooperation with more than 10 provincial, municipal and autonomous regional governments and several prefecture governments. The SSE has gradually established a national promotion network for services and training system for planned-to-be-listed resources by various measures. Moreover, the SSE emphasized on strengthening the supports and services for the national economic weaknesses and enhancing the connection of the capital market with key industries including the scientific innovation industry, the modern agriculture and the cultural industry. For example, the SSE actively advocated the cultural enterprises to make full use of the capital market to grow bigger and stronger. From 2010 to 2011, a total of over 10 cultural enterprises had been well prepared for making full use of the capital market to conduct the direct financing. Among these enterprises, 5 ones have gone public or passed the approval of the CSRC, thus promoting the grand development of the cultural industry. The systematic market services of the SSE strongly promoted the sound development of the blue chip market. Moreover, its service level, concept and mode have been preliminarily recognized by the market. "In the recent years, the SSE's market services have better met the actual needs of enterprises by fixing on the enterprises and market. Thanks to the advantages of the SSE during the close cooperation with the governments and market intermediary institutions, the blue chip market became bigger and stronger and the capability of the capital market to serve the real economy has been improved." said by an analyst. The SSE has large development space for serving SMEs. "By accelerating the construction of the multi-tiered capital market system and improving the structure of the market system, differentiated financial services can be provided for enterprises of different scales and types at various growth stages to speed up their development," pointed out Chairman Guo Shuqing of the CSRC in his keynote speech at the 9th Forum on Financing of Small and Medium Enterprises last year. The SSE has large development space for serving SMEs. An SSE official said, "Compared with the urgent demands of the real economy, what the SSE has done in its main board market is far from enough to serve SMEs by facilitating the rapid growth of the real economy, supporting the structural transformation of the national economy and implementing the multi-tiered capital market system. The SSE still has large development space and great potential for serving the blue chip market. At present, the number of SSE-listed companies amounts to 942, which, however, accounts for a very small part of tens of thousands of stock companies at certain scale. The direct financing function of the stock market is not so developed as other financing methods. Besides, SMEs in its true sense have a very small proportion in listed companies on the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE). This means that they have got no effective support from the capital market. The entire capital market keeps great emphasis on the services for non-SMEs. Therefore, the SSE faces a challenge about how to fully tap the potential of the capital market to better serve the real economy for the construction of the blue chip market. Moreover, the SSE is also confronted with some extra problems about market services as quite a few government departments, intermediaries and enterprises have many cognitive misunderstandings on the blue chip market. For instance, there is a misunderstanding that the SSE offers services only for large enterprises as it poses very high requirements. Actually, according to the division of listing on the SSE and the SZSE, the enterprises issuing less than 50 million shares (inclusive) are required to go public on the SZSE, those issuing more than 80 million shares (inclusive) to go public on the SSE, and those issuing between 50 million shares and 80 million shares to choose the listing location on their own. In other words, the enterprises issuing more than 50 million shares can choose to go public on the SSE. Furthermore, there is another misunderstanding that the price-to-earnings ratio is lower on the main board of the SSE. In fact, investors, price inquirers and regulatory policy and environment are almost the same for the IPO in different securities markets in China. Therefore, the price-to-earnings ratio of a given enterprise is only closely related to the enterprise itself and the characteristics of the industry but not directly related to the board for listing. Data show that in 2011, the number of enterprises issuing between 50 million shares and 80 million shares on the SSE accounted for one third of 39 enterprises in total for IPO and these enterprises achieved the price-to-earnings ratio of 43 times on average. In the same period, 13 enterprises issuing between 50 million shares and 80 million shares went public on the SZSE SME board, with the price-to-earnings ratio of 43 times on average. This shows that the price-to-earnings ratio for IPO is about the same on both exchanges. In addition, some enterprises hold that they can harvest a higher premium when artificially shrinking the share capital in the listing. As a matter of fact, the share capital of an enterprise should correspond to its own asset size and profitability and match with its actual conditions. The research on enterprises' IPO on the main board of the SSE and the SME board of the SZSE from 2010 to 2011 shows that most enterprises set the earnings per share between RMB0.2 and RMB0.8, and enterprises yielding the earnings per share between RMB0.2 and RMB0.6 realized higher price-to-earnings ratio on average for IPO than those yielding the earnings per share between RMB0.6 and RMB0.8. Besides, the practices of shrinking the share capital artificially before listing, issuing shares at a high price and having a high proportion of bonus shares or capitalized shares after listing have aroused much attention of the regulatory authority as they distort the true value of the enterprises to some extent and may lead to insider trading. "The cognitive misunderstandings remind the SSE to work hard on market services and also gradually remove the misunderstandings on the market for the purpose of creating a favorable environment for the SSE's blue chip market to serve the real economy," said an SSE official. In future, the SSE will carry on with the strategy of market-oriented services, further strengthen the consciousness of service, innovate in the service mode, release the vitality and actively promote the construction and improvement of the multi-tiered capital market system based on the needs of the real economy and the actual condition of the blue chip market. What's more, the SSE will cooperate with the CSRC to deepen the reforms in merger, acquisition and reorganization, dividend distribution, delisting and other aspects, and earnestly propel the SSE's blue chip market to play a bigger role in boosting the structural transition of the national economy and the development of rising industries as well as serving the economic growth and social progress.

SSE Takes Three Measures to Optimize Structure of Blue Chip Market
28 May 2012
The "Seminar on Construction of Blue Chip Market and Guidance for Rational Investment" was held. On May 27, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held the seminar on "Construction of Blue Chip Market and Guidance for Rational Investment", which attracted representatives from 200 securities business departments of 47 securities companies and some fund companies. This seminar aimed to further implement the requirements of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) for cementing the construction of the blue chip market and strengthening the publicity on rational investment, and assist securities companies to play a more pivotal role in guiding investors for establishing the concept of rational investment and value investing. As mentioned at the seminar, Chinese securities market has been gradually keeping up with internationally accepted practices concerning systematic structure, operational mechanism, investor structure, investment concept and other aspects. Due to the change of operational pattern of the capital market, market participants and investors shall take a new look at the market and change their investment concept accordingly, for the purpose of adapting to the changeable market environment. As a systematic engineering, the popularization of value investing and rational investment depends on joint effort of all market participants. The SSE, along with market participants like securities and fund companies, will take three measures to continuously promote the construction of the blue chip market in accordance with the principle of combining service innovation and supervision strengthening. Firstly, the SSE will further strengthen the market's service function. In order to enhance the appeal of the market, the SSE will further enrich the constituents of the multi-tiered blue chip market by assisting the quality enterprises with great potential in the sub-sectors to go public on the SSE. Secondly, based on the innovative experience in the collateralized quotation repo of bonds, agreed repurchase securities trading and cross-market ETF and other business, the SSE will further strengthen the cooperation with market participants such as members and fund companies, thus pushing forward the product innovation of securities and fund companies. Thirdly, the SSE will further toughen the supervision. It will take such measures as cracking down on illegal speculation on newly issued shares, urging listed companies to distribute dividend and perfecting delisting system to lay a good foundation for guidance for rational investment and value investing. According to an official from the relevant department of the SSE, the SSE will inject new blood into the blue chip market by further optimizing its structural layout, in a bid to provide the target and platform for rational investment and value investing. Meanwhile, the SSE will further propel the development of fund market by establishing two boards of public market and special market, introducing the ETF repurchase market to develop the 1-day and 7-day repurchase varieties and studying innovation products such as deferred ETF trading and stage-by-stage ETF trading. During the interactive discussion, chief economists and strategy analysts from securities companies including China International Capital Corporation Limited, CITIC Securities Co. Ltd., Essence Securities Co., Ltd. and UBS Securities Co., Limited gave wide recognition to the current valuation advantage of blue chip and thought highly of the long-term investment value of the blue chip market. In addition, they all believed that the CSRC's recent measures, which focused on consolidating the development foundation of the market, would play an important role in promoting the sound development of the stock market and boosting the long-term rewards of the market. As stated by representatives for assets management and innovative services from securities and fund companies in their speeches, the securities industry would face the best opportunity for innovative development and the inflexion point for innovative opportunities. As a result, all sectors of the community would have high expectations of a new round of reform in the securities industry. Currently, wealth management has been the urgent need of the society. The assets management business of securities and fund companies calls for the innovation of business mode and transformation of operational mode, which aims to build a product line of specified positioning, controllable risks and a complete coverage of risk-return proportion by taking clients' demands as the centre and differentiated development as the breakthrough. Representatives from securities companies and business departments compared their notes on the experience in implementing the CSRC's united deployment of guidance for rational development and carrying out multi-tiered investors educational activities, and discussed on issues including the measures for effectively curbing irrational behaviors of some small and medium-sized investors such as new shares speculation, small-cap stocks speculation and short-term investment through centralized publicity and education as well as risk alert, doing well in the client management and fully implementing investors' classified management and suitability system, establishing a professional team for investor education and financial consultation focusing on service modes and quality and propelling the strategic transformation of brokerage business from channel service to wealth-management one. This seminar provided a platform for the exchange on investor education and service experience in the community. Besides, it also provided a beneficial reference for the front-line service staff to develop ideas, improve the capability of guiding rational investment and innovate in the ways to guide rational investment.

Notice of New Candidates for "SSE Corporate Governance Sector"
28 May 2012
According to the "Appraisal Measures of SSE Corporate Governance Sector", after the disclosure of annual report of 2011, the SSE adjusts the constituents of the corporate governance sector and receives voluntary applications from new companies on the basis of the original 264 companies. It hereby publicizes the 38 new candidate companies for the public to review their governance and put forward constructive suggestions or comments. Please submit your suggestions or comments in written form or by email to China Securities Index Co., Ltd. before June 1, 2012. The contact information is as follows: Fax: 8621-50186368 E-mail: zhliu@sse.com.cn Correspondence Address: Liu Zhenhua, China Securities Index Co., Ltd., 5/F of Building B, 555 Yingchun Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai Postal code: 200135 Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. May 28, 2012

SSE Backs up Innovation, Development of Securities Companies
25 May 2012
Innovation is the soul and the driving force of the development of the capital market. The Chinese capital market can hardly do without innovation in the course of its evolution and development for the past two decades, and even more on the road to maturity in the future. As the organizer of the capital market, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), following the requirements in the remarks by Chairman Guo Shuqing at the seminar on innovation and development of securities companies, actively supports the innovation and development of securities companies by dint of well-prepared organization and simplified procedures. First of all, the SSE gives play to its organization ability for promoting the innovation of securities companies. To stand by the innovation of securities companies, the SSE established the Product Innovation Committee with its leading official as Director early this year, under which several innovation working groups were set up according to the varieties of innovative products, specifically responsible for the innovation. To urge securities companies for the innovation, the SSE officials along with the group members initiatively paid visits to several securities companies for introducing them the working plan about innovation and listening to their opinions and suggestions. In the near future, the SSE will organize a symposium on innovative businesses of securities companies to carry on promoting the innovation. Besides, the SSE simplifies the procedures for innovation to improve securities companies' efficiency in innovation. According to the requirements of accelerating the innovation in new business and products at the seminar on innovation and development of securities companies, the SSE plans to speed up the professional evaluation and the pilot expansion for the collateralized quotation repo of bonds and the agreed repurchase securities trading business. It is drafting the conventional measures for quotation repo to standardize the business scheme. As for the collateralized repo of shares and other new business, the SSE plans to simplify the procedures for development, and accelerate the professional evaluation and the pilot expansion to improve the efficiency in innovation. Moreover, the SSE launches product innovation to strengthen the innovation ability of securities companies. Faced with the status quo that a great many SMEs and private-sector funds find it difficult to finance and invest respectively, the SSE goes all out to launch the innovation in products and business and propel the innovation and development of the capital market by exerting the functions of the capital market for better serving the real economy, bringing into play the capital market's functions in risk sharing and elimination for preventing risks in national economy, and enriching financial products for satisfying citizens' demands for wealth management. Firstly, the SSE promotes quotation repo, supporting securities companies to provide clients with cash-based wealth management products. Quotation repo refers to a kind of business that securities companies finance from clients by pledging its own bonds and making quotations (annual rate of return) according to different repo products, and return the raised funds and pay the quotation income to clients on the due date of repurchase. Quotation repo, on one hand, enriches the investment channels of clients and enables the clients to use idle deposit for high yield and timely investment in securities. On the other hand, it not only slows down the loss of the deposit of securities companies' clients in the market correction, thus helping securities companies retain the clients, but also facilitates securities companies' gaining surplus investment income and enriching sources of business growth. Quotation repo is now at the pilot stage. A total of 22 securities companies including Guosen Securities Co., Ltd. and Guotai Junan Securities Co., Ltd. have opened the pilot business, which has been well received by clients in the market. By the end of April, the value of accumulative quotation repo transactions has reached RMB169.6 billion and the number of registered investors amounted to 72,066 this year. The SSE is actively promoting the pilot expansion for quotation repo and formulating various optimization measures, such as simplifying the method of contract signing, loosening the requirements for clients' qualifications, elevating the investment proportion of bonds and adopting real-time in-and-out storage of bonds . The SSE will manage to open quotation repo on a regular basis this year. Secondly, the SSE opens agreed repurchase, helping securities companies enhance their abilities to provide financing services for the real economy. Agreed repurchase means that qualified clients sell underlying securities to the targeted securities company at an agreed price and agree to repurchase the underlying securities from the securities company at another agreed price on one day in the future. Practically, shareholders with shares in a listed company need to hold the current shares unchanged and meanwhile have more demands for financing. Agreed repurchase can help these shareholders to solve the problem of being forced to sell equity assets for long-term investment due to the demand for short-term financing, thus enhancing securities companies' abilities to provide clients with financing services. At present, CITIC Securities Co., Ltd., China Galaxy Securities Company Limited and Haitong Securities Company Limited as pilot units have opened agreed repurchase and achieved good results. By the end of April, the value of accumulative agreed repurchase transactions has reached RMB176 million and the number of registered investors amounted to 52 this year. To push forward the further development of agreed repurchase, the SSE plans to relax the restrictions on business scope and investment methods, expand the coverage, increase asset management plan and other transactional objects, extend the time for repurchase, loosen the restrictions on clients' qualifications, perfect the procedures for punishment on default, amend the business rules and promote the collateralized repo of shares upon research. Thirdly, the SSE probes into the graded assets management plan, enriching the types of financial products offered by securities companies for clients. The graded assets management plan of securities companies is to divide units into preferred, secondary and other units with different features of risks and returns. Preferred units enjoy agreed return while secondary units have the return on surplus assets in the pool plan. Expected return on preferred units is guaranteed by secondary units to protect the interest of investors for preferred units. Securities companies' clients have large demands for investment in products with low risks, strong liquidity and short-term fixed income. They hope to use idle funds for investment in proper wealth management products when not involved in securities trading. As preferred units feature low risks and fixed income, the graded plan provides the clients with corresponding services, conducive to meeting the clients' demands for wealth management with idle funds. The new product will enrich the financial products and services provided by securities companies. With the aid of the graded plan, securities companies can offer clients more convenient and efficient investment products in a full coverage of different risk appetites, and enhance their competitiveness in the securities sector. At present, some securities companies are setting about the research on the business scheme. The SSE together with some securities companies has discussed and improved the business scheme for the graded plan, and initiated the development of the platform for unit transfer.

Notice of Issuing "SSE Business Guidelines for Liquidity Service of ETFs"
25 May 2012
All market participants, To improve the liquidity of exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and rationalize the liquidity service, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby issues the "SSE Business Guidelines for Liquidity Service of ETFs", which shall come into effect from the issuance date. May 25, 2012 Shanghai Stock Exchange

Notice of Relevant Issues on Publishing and Implementing "SSE's Business Guidelines (Trial) for SMEs Private Placement Bonds"
23 May 2012
All market participants, The SSE formulates the "SSE's Business Guidelines (Trial) for SMEs Private Placement Bonds" according to the "SSE's Tentative Measures for SMEs Private Placement Bonds", with a view to ensuring the normal and orderly operation on private placement of bonds for SMEs. It herby publishes and implements the Business Guidelines. Shanghai Stock Exchange May 23, 2012 SSE's Business Guidelines (Trial) for SMEs Private Placement Bonds

Q&A on SSE's Tentative Measures for SMEs Private Placement Bonds
22 May 2012
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) published the "Tentative Measures for SMEs Private Placement Bonds" (Tentative Measures) on the evening of May 22, marking the official launch of SMEs private placement bonds widely followed in the market. In an interview, an SSE official gave an introduction to the significance and the main content of the Tentative Measures. Q: What are the background and the significance of the Tentative Measures? A: It is a longstanding problem that SMEs have found themselves difficult and costly to finance in China. As SMEs are important forces for national economy and social progress in our country, it is of great significance to promote the development of SMEs for the steady and rapid growth of national economy. From January 2012, the SSE set about drafting rules and regulations on SMEs private placement bonds. Based on the opinions solicited from the market participants including securities companies and other intermediaries as well as investors, it submitted the Tentative Measures to the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). Recently, the SSE won the CSRC's approval in the official written reply to the Tentative Measures. With a view to implementing the work deployment of the State Council for further expanding SMEs' financing channels, the SSE took the important move of initiating the pilot program for SMEs private placement bonds, helping to enhance the abilities of the capital market serving the real economy, mitigate the financing problems of SMEs, especially enterprises related to agriculture, rural areas and farmers as well as startups and the enterprises with new types of operation and business models, and propel the sound development of SMEs. Q: What enterprises are allowed to issue SMEs private placement bonds? A: As defined in the Tentative Measures, during the pilot period, the issuers of SMEs private placement bonds are unlisted micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. To be specific, the issuers refer to the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises which conform to the stipulations in the "Notice on Issuing Provisions on Classification Standards for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises" (No. 300 [2011] of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology) but haven't gone public on the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, with real estate and financial enterprises temporarily excluded. Therefore, the launch of SMEs private placement bonds extends the scope for the capital market serving the real economy. Q: What are the characteristics of SMEs private placement bonds compared with current enterprise bonds and corporate bonds? A: The Tentative Measures highlights the market-oriented principle, which is embodied in three aspects as follows. Firstly, as for SMEs private placement bonds, the issuer's net asset and profitability are not mandatory, and the issuer's debt-paying ability and usage of funds are subject to the judgement of underwriter. Secondly, all the elements of SMEs private placement bonds such as the issuance amount, the interest rate and the time limit are determined by the issuer, the underwriter and the investors upon negotiation. The right-obligation relationship among all the parties is stipulated in the contract. Thirdly, the exchange-filed issuance system is adopted for SMEs private placement bonds. Namely, the SSE is responsible for verifying the completeness of filed materials. If the materials are complete, the SSE will issue the "Notice of Filing Acceptance" within 10 working days from the day when the materials are accepted. Then the issuer and the underwriter can start the issuance of bonds. Q: What investors can purchase SMEs private placement bonds? A: As SMEs private placement bonds are with both high risks and high yields, not all the investors are suitable for participating in the purchase of SMEs private placement bonds. Therefore, in order to protect investors, the Tentative Measures adopts the strict investor suitability management system so that only qualified investors with risk recognition and tolerance can subscribe for and receive SMEs private placement bonds. Investors should know well about the risks of privately placed bonds, independently conduct credit risk analysis and investment judgment, and take on risks themselves. Q: Will the SSE issue the detailed rules for SMEs private placement bonds besides the Tentative Measures? A: The SSE will soon publish relevant business guidelines and specify the rules for the filing and issuance, the information disclosure, the transfer, the investor suitability management and other aspects related to SMEs private placement bonds for implementation. Q: Can SMEs private placement bonds be traded on the exchange after issuance? A: As SMEs private placement bonds are issued in a non-public way, they can't be traded on the exchange but transferred on the SSE's comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities or the counters of securities companies with the holders not more than 200. China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited provides registration and settlement services for the issuance and transfer of SMEs private placement bonds. It handles clearing and delivery services based on the transfer data sent and confirmed by the exchange, offers various methods of settlement like the trade-for-trade and gross settlement and the free of payment (FOP) as well as flexible arrangements of delivery period in line with the characteristics of privately placed bonds and the market demands, and provides collection and payment services in respond to the market demands. Q: What measures are specified in the Tentative Measures to protect the rights and interests of investors? A: Several measures and arrangements are specified in the Tentative Measures to protect the rights and interests of investors for privately placed bonds. First of all, the Tentative Measures ushers in the trustee system for privately placed bonds, stipulating that the trustee is obliged to safeguard the interests of holders of privately placed bonds and protect the rights and interests of investors in accordance with the agreement. Besides, the Tentative Measures requires the issuer to establish the debt repayment deposit and specifies the withdrawal of the deposit. Moreover, the SSE encourages the issuer to take internal and external credit enhancement measures, improve the solvency and reduce the risks of privately placed bonds. The SSE will give priority to privately placed bonds with effective credit enhancement measures for filing during the pilot period.

Notice of Relevant Issues on Publishing and Implementing "SSE's Tentative Measures for SMEs Private Placement Bonds"
22 May 2012
All market participants, With a view to rationalizing the private placement of bonds for SMEs, expand the financing channels of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, support the development of the real economy and protect the legal rights and interests of investors, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) formulates the "SSE's Tentative Measures for SMEs Private Placement Bonds". Upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, it hereby publishes and implements the Tentative Measures. During the pilot period, the issuers of SMEs private placement bonds are limited to the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises which conform to the stipulations in the "Notice on Issuing Provisions on Classification Standards for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises" (No. 300 [2011] of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology) but haven't gone public on the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, with real estate and financial enterprises temporarily excluded. Attachment: SSE's Tentative Measures for SMEs Private Placement Bonds Shanghai Stock Exchange May 22, 2012

Serial Report (I) on SSE's Implementation of CSRC's Various Measures on Scientific Development of Securities Market
22 May 2012
With an aim to enrich market function by reform and innovation and serve real economy by improving capacity, the SSE actively probes into and promotes the scientific development of the securities market. Since taking office, Guo Shuqing, new Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), has issued a series of important thoughts such as those on advocating value investing, deepening the reform on the new shares issuance system, perfecting the delisting system of listed companies, improving the dividend distribution system of listed companies, protecting the interests of  small and medium investors, promoting the development of the bond market, propelling the long-term funds' participation in the market, speeding up the market innovation and lowering the market taxes, thus pointing out the direction for the further reform and development of the securities market. According to the fixed target of promoting the scientific development of the securities market, the CSRC has successively pushed forward or is planning a series of significant measures. In conjugation with the relevant reform policies of the CSRC, the SSE has done a lot of work and introduced a series of effective measures, such as formulating serial schemes of perfecting the new shares issuance system and delisting system of listed companies upon study, promoting the pilot program for private placement of bonds for SMEs, advocating value investing, lowering the costs of market transactions, pushing forward the construction of dividend distribution system of listed companies, perfecting the investor suitability management system, propelling the securities brokers' innovative business, cracking down on the illegal speculation on new shares and carrying out the publicity on investor education and protection. All this has achieved desired effects. As a result, within a few months, our securities market has witnessed significant changes in system construction, specific operation and market environment. Firstly, in conjugation with the reform of the new shares issuance system, the punishment on speculation on new shares has been toughened. Guo Shuqing said after taking post that the most pressing task was to deepen the system reform and perfect the issuance, delisting and dividend distribution systems. This reform aimed to reflect the company's actual value via the new shares' prices and solve the problem of high price-to-earnings ratio, thus realizing the coordinated and sound development of primary and the secondary markets by the market-oriented new shares issuance pricing. The new issuance system was officially launched in April this year after the CSRC issued the "Guidance Opinion on Further Deepening IPO System Reform". The SSE actively participated in the scheme compilation of IPO system reform and purposefully strengthened the crackdown, supervision and publicity on the new shares speculation. Thanks to the SSE's clear goal, speedy response and effective crackdown in its regulatory work, the successful implementation of the new IPO system was guaranteed. Based on the long-term regulatory practices and experience of new shares transactions as well as in-depth empirical research, the SSE published the "Notice of Toughening Supervision on Trading at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing" and the "Notice of Strengthening Supervision on Clients' Trading Behaviors at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing" on March 8. These two "Notices" provided the guidelines of conducts for all market participants and the basis for the SSE to utilize various regulatory measures to prevent and crack down on the new share speculation by perfecting the mechanism of the in-session temporary trading suspension of new shares on the first day of listing, strengthening the regulatory measures on the trading of new shares and defining the types of abnormal trading behaviors for new shares. After the release of the "Notices", as of May 10, a total of 8 new shares had been listed on the SSE, among which 4 new shares were imposed with the in-session temporary trading suspension on the first day of listing. Concerning the in-session abnormal trading for new shares, the SSE notified the market of regulatory information in time by oral reminder, written warning and other ways. With regard to the accounts frequently involving speculation on new shares, the SSE decisively adopted measures including in-session trading suspension, restricted trading and report to the CSRC for punishment. Thanks to these regulatory measures, the SSE has cracked down on new share speculation and effectively curbed the abnormal trading for new shares. Secondly, the SSE has promoted the construction of the dividend distribution system of listed companies by vigorously advocating value investing. Promotion of value investing is an important part of "Guo Shuqing's new policies". Guo said in February this year that there existed unusual investment value in our current securities market and the concept of rational investment could be advocated by strongly opposing such investment mentality as "making a fortune quickly" and "making great fortune overnight" and further popularizing the ideas of long-term investment, value investing and "caveat emptor". In a bid to improve the investment value of the securities market and lay a foundation for value investing, the CSRC actively propelled the establishment of a more rational dividend distribution system of listed companies and encouraged listed companies to reward their investors by dividend distribution. "As the most important component of investors' rewards, dividend is the decisive factor of the company's stock value and the foundation for the normal operation of the capital market as well," said Guo. For many years, the SSE has been constructing the blue chip market, which involves the improvement of returns to the investors. Thanks to the strong promotion by the CSRC and the exchanges, the initiative of listed companies on dividend and returns has been gradually showcased. According to statistics, despite the decline of growth of listed companies' net profit caused by the external environmental factors, a total of 571 SSE-listed companies, or over 60% of the total, proposed the scheme of profit distribution or capitalization from public capital reserve in their annual reports of 2011. Among them, 553 listed companies planned to conduct the cash dividend distribution, with the total planned-to-be-distributed cash dividends accounting for nearly 30% of total net profit of these companies. Both the number of companies for distribution and the dividend proportion had a year-on-year increase. The SSE is studying on toughening the regulatory mechanism of the decision process and fulfillment of listed companies' profit distribution and planning to further improve the current dividend index system and relevant investment products like ETFs, with an aim of guiding and motivating listed companies to reward investors better by market-oriented methods. For the purpose of constructing a better market for value investing, the SSE called on and urged long-term funds' participation in the market and provided more convenient and effective investment products such as ETFs based on blue chips for the long-term funds for long-term investment and value investing. Moreover, the SSE encouraged long-term investment by lowering the fees for market trading. In addition to the long-term favorable policies on bonds and fund trading, on April 30, the SSE, along with the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and the China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited, announced to lower the relevant charging standards for A shares trading, with the total decrease up to 25%. The adjusted charging standards will be implemented from June 1 onwards. Thirdly, the SSE has boosted the survival-of-the-fittest function of the market by perfecting the delisting system of listed companies. As a basic system of the securities market, delisting system is a crucial way to realize the market's function of optimizing resource allocation and ensure the sound development of the market. Exchanges assume more important and direct responsibilities for the implementation of delisting system. In order to collect opinions from the public, the SSE published the "Scheme of Perfecting Delisting System of SSE-listed Companies (Draft Version)" on April 29. With an aim of establishing a clear, rational and effective delisting system, the "Scheme" enriched and specified the delisting standards via adding operational and market-oriented delisting indicators including those for net assets and revenues, and improved the completeness and operability of procedures for delisting system. In addition, with view to further protecting the rights and interests of investors, the "Scheme" also pushed forward transitional measures and arrangements for delisting including the risk alert board, the arrangement board for delisting, the service of transferring shares of delisted companies and the re-listing of de-listed companies. As a result, the "Scheme" was well received by the public after publication. So far, the "Scheme" has ended its procedures for collecting opinions from the public. Based on the summary and reference to the feedbacks, according to the uniform deployment of the CSRC, the SSE will further perfect the scheme with a good design of the systems including those of delisting indicators, delisting procedures, risk alert board, transfer of delisted shares and company re-listing and formulate special business regulations on delisting and supporting detailed rules for implementation, for the purpose of doing a better job for the connection between listing rules and trading rules as well as effective transitional arrangements. Fourthly, the SSE has promoted market innovation in face of the best historical opportunities. According to Chairman Guo at the forum on innovation and development of Chinese securities companies, the current securities industry embraced the best historical period for financial innovation. With an aim of upgrading the capacity and level of serving real economy via reform and innovation, the securities industry should undertake its due historical responsibility, focus on the internal needs of real economy and follow the orientation of marketization, internationalization and standardization. The SSE has embraced the best historical period for innovation this year. At the beginning of this year, the SSE formulated the "route chart" for the innovation of products, which involved the following three basic fields: on the first place were basic products, such as those of stock and bonds; the second innovation was that on structured products. Aiming at diversified investors, the SSE has planned 12 types of innovations, including those on block trading, margin trading, wealth management plans, stock repurchase, financing by shares mortgage, held-for-trading assets management and transfer plan and various structured products of fund and bonds; thirdly, the SSE planned to introduce derivative products, such as the futures and options based on individual stocks. In a bid to cultivate qualified investors for derivative products, the SSE has developed relevant system. The Huatai-PineBridge CSI 300 ETF whose issuance was just completed raised RMB33 billion in its first raising, which witnessed a record high in the IPO scale of index fund in the Chinese securities market. Thanks to the smooth progress in expanding the pilot of agreed repurchase business, some highly-motivated securities brokers greatly increased pilot quotas and business departments. In addition, the improvement of block trading mechanism has ended its opinion collection form the public and is being promoted as scheduled; the cross-border ETFs are also well-prepared. The SSE is also planning to launch the simulated trading of options based on ETFs and individual stocks and develop RQFII products at a proper time. In a word, the SSE, in line with the principles of controlling risks and making progress in an orderly way and the orientation of market demands, will make more efforts on the market innovation. Concerning service innovation, in a bid to upgrade the capacity for serving development of real economy, the SSE is going through a significant transformation to develop more services for SMEs and make the strategic structural adjustment of serving national economy by broadening service channel and expanding service scope and depth. Besides, the SSE is also further promoting and perfecting the infrastructure for the capital market development. At present, the SSE is planning to construct the Industry Technology R&D Center, Disaster Recovery Center, Custody Service Center and R&D Center. With view to smoothly propelling all innovative work and implementing the strategic planning of the exchange, the SSE is sparing no effort to promote its own organizational innovation and study the demutualization reform, hoping to transform it into an enterprise suitable for the market's economic features according to the requirements of national economy and market development. Fifthly, the SSE has optimized the structure of direct financing by developing the bond market. Developing the bond market, especially the corporate bond market, is an important move to improve the operational environment of the domestic financial system, raise the proportion of direct financing in the whole society, optimize the structure of shares and bonds in direct financing and make the securities market better serve real economy. At the national securities and futures regulatory meeting held at the beginning of the year, Guo Shuqing pointed out that the SSE, by implementing the requirements of the State Council for actively and steadily developing the bond market, would encourage qualified enterprises to raise funds through the issuance of corporate bonds, push forward the structural adjustment of the capital market and elevate the proportion of corporate bond financing in direct financing. Guo stressed that renewed efforts would be made on the innovation in the bond market, such as developing high-yield bonds and issuing SMEs private placement bonds, in an effort to enrich the current bond market and satisfy diversified demands for investing and financing. In order to carry out the CSRC's instructions for developing the bond market, the SSE has set about taking specific measures based on the practices and relevant research on the development of the bond market for years. From this year, the SSE's bond market has maintained good momentum, with nearly one hundred enterprise and corporate bonds newly increased as well as the amount of bonds for custody and the turnover dramatically increased. With great emphasis on the regular corporate bond market, the SSE spares no effort on the preparations for businesses and technologies related to the rule-making, registration, issuance and listing for SMEs private placement bonds. It strives to promote the full-fledged SMEs private placement bonds in the first half of the year as all the preparations for the bonds are being conducted in an orderly way according to the deployment of the CSRC. Having completed the draft of the "Tentative Measures for SMEs Private Placement Bonds", the SSE makes investigations and solicits opinions on it across the country. Soon, it will publish and implement the Tentative Measures, which will play an important role in mitigating the financing problem of SMEs and supporting the development of real economy. In addition, the SSE has been devoted to rationalizing some basic systems for the development of the bond market. For example, it pushes forward the implementation of the investor suitability management system and propels insurance companies, enterprise annuity, trust companies and other institutions to participate in the bond market. It will manage to start the pilot program for pre-issuance and transaction of treasury bonds within the year and promote one-on-one repurchase upon research; meanwhile, it will launch the trade-for-trade real-time delivery and settlement mode and takes the initiative to apply the mode to SMEs private placement bonds. Finally, the SSE has renewed its effort on creating a favorable market environment by strengthening investor education. In order to create a favorable environment for market reform, development and innovation, the SSE lays great emphasis on investor education. Taking investor education as a regular, basic and longstanding task of great importance to promote the long-term and sustainable development of the market, the SSE systematically combines investor education with each measure for reform, development and innovation, thus ensuring the smooth progress of each measure. For instance, when propelling the IPO system reform, the SSE includes the prevention on new share speculation and the abnormal trading of new shares in investor education. It enhances the publicity through the media, and strengthens the information disclosure for individual investors' blind purchase of new shares on the first day of listing and other market trading behaviors to warn of the risks for new share speculation. In future, the SSE will make more efforts to implement the "Notice of Toughening Supervision on Trading at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing" and the "Notice of Strengthening Supervision on Clients' Trading Behaviors at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing", and effectively prevent and curb new share speculation. Meanwhile, it will continue to rationalize upon research the trading mechanism at the preliminary stage of new shares listing, perfect the long-acting management mechanism for investors' participation in new shares trading and guide the market for rational participation in new shares trading. Furthermore, the SSE attaches great importance to the investor suitability management by applying it to the schematic design of new products and businesses to make sure that right products are sold to right investors, and advocating investors to purchase investment tools matching with their risk tolerance. At present, the SSE is earnestly studying the remarks by the CSRC's leading officials, probing into the CSRC's thoughts on reform and fully implementing the CSRC's reform measures in a bid to contribute more to serve the real economy and the securities market.

SSE: Heavy Punch on New Share Speculation
21 May 2012
Shares of Epoxy Base Electronic Material Corporation Limited (Epoxy Base Electronic) were listed on May 18. Closing at RMB8.56 per share, up 6.9% from the opening price of RMB8.01, the shares of Epoxy Base Electronic surged 137.8% from its RMB3.60 issuance price, with the intraday turnover rate of 86.1%. The SSE imposed in-session temporary trading suspension on the shares due to the abnormal fluctuation of the stock prices in light of the "SSE Notice of Toughening Supervision on Trading at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing". According to the SSE, most stock buyers on the first trading day of the shares were small and medium-sized investors, instead of fund companies, securities dealers, insurance companies and other professional institutional investors. Statistics showed that the purchase amount of individual accounts accounted for 99.47% of the total transaction amount. The number of accounts with the transaction amount of less than RMB0.5 million reached 11,000, or 98.41% of the total, while the purchase amount of these accounts accounted for only 58.88% of the total. The number of accounts with the transaction amount of more than RMB5 million was only 6, or 0.05% of the total, but the purchase amount of these 6 accounts accounted for 7.66% of the total. In addition to promptly imposing warnings on the investors conducting abnormal trading, the SSE, in compliance with the Notice, took measures of in-session temporary trading suspension on several accounts with seriously abnormal trading behaviors, whose owners, including two surnamed Liang and Chen, kept irregular trading after the warning.

Notice of Taking ETFs as Underlying Securities of Margin Trading, Securities Lending
21 May 2012
All member units and fund management companies, According to Articles 25 and 26 in the "SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Margin Trading and Securities Lending", the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby makes the following notice for relevant issues of taking ETFs as underlying securities of margin trading and securities lending: 1. Any ETF which meets the following requirements could be taken as an underlying security of margin trading and securities lending after it traded on the SSE for at least 5 trading days: a. The average daily asset size is not smaller than RMB10 billion; b. The number of fund holders is not less than 10,000; and c. The number of the constituent stocks tracking indices is not less than 30, with the total market capitalization not less than RMB500 billion. 2. The SSE could adjust the above requirements according to the market demands. 3. The Notice will take effect as of the issuance day. Shanghai Stock Exchange May 18, 2012

SSE Take Measures to Prevent Speculation on New Shares
17 May 2012
Re-limited Trading of Accounts With a view to implementing the requirements of deepening new share issuance system reform of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has carried out a series of supervision measures to prevent the speculation on new shares, for the purpose of curbing over-speculation on new shares. Recently, the SSE has imposed oral or written warnings on the accounts with abnormal trading of new shares, the measure of in-session suspension of trading on the very day on several accounts with serious abnormal trading of new shares and the disciplinary punishment of 3-month trading restrictions on the securities account with its owner surnamed Huang seriously violating relevant regulations in the trading of news shares such as those in Yechiu Metal Recycling (China) Ltd. (Yechiu Metal), People.cn Co., Ltd. (People.cn) and Beijing Cuiwei Tower Co., Ltd. The SSE has cracked down on new share speculation by strengthening the measures on regulating the whole process of new share trading. First of all, the SSE released new regulations of preventing speculation on new shares and provided the basis. Based on the practical experience and empirical research on the supervision on the new shares trading, the SSE issued the "Notice of Toughening Supervision on Trading at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing" and the "Notice of Strengthening Supervision on Clients' Trading Behaviors at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing" on March 8. The above two "Notices" perfected the system of in-session temporary trading suspension on new shares on the first day of listing, strengthened the regulatory measures on new share trading and defined the abnormal trading behaviors for new shares, thus providing the behavior guideline and supervision basis for all market participants. At the same time, in a bid to urge its member units to attach importance to the management on preventing speculation on new shares, the two "Notices" further strengthened the member units' responsibilities for cooperative management and confirmed the roles and responsibilities of member units in the cooperative management of new shares. Secondly, multiple regulatory measures have been adopted to crack down on new share speculation. With an aim of further tightening its crackdown on new share speculation, the SSE had more pertinent supervision on the accounts committing new share speculation after systematically sorting them and shortlisting them as key supervised objects. Concerning the in-session abnormal trading for new shares, the SSE notified the market of regulatory information in time by oral reminder, written warning and other ways. With regard to the accounts frequently involving speculation on new shares, the SSE decisively adopted measures including in-session trading suspension on the very day, restricted trading and report to the CSRC for punishment. For example, at the end of February, the SSE restricted the trading of the accounts committing new share speculation, such as those with their owners surnamed Huang and Su, and reported some accounts committing new share speculation to the CSRC for investigation. After issuance of "Notices", as of May 10, a total of 8 new shares had been listed on the SSE, among which 4 new shares such as those in Yechiu Metal and People.cn had met the conditions for in-session temporary trading suspension. The SSE immediately adopted a series of supervision measure on the securities accounts having abnormal trading behaviors for new shares, with an aim of curbing speculation on new shares. Thirdly, efforts have been made to strengthen the media publicity on preventing new share speculation and notify the risks in new share speculation. In the recent serial activities such as the special lecture themed "Guidance for Rational Investment", by giving typical cases related to new share speculation, the SSE cautioned investors that irrational investment behaviors including the speculation on new shares are one of the important reasons for the investors' losses. Meanwhile, the SSE constantly reinforced the media publicity on preventing speculation on new shares by publishing articles about preventing speculation on new shares in major newspapers, magazines and financial websites, in a bid to remind investors of risks in new share speculation. In addition, the SSE also strengthened the information disclosure of transaction features of new shares on the first day of listing and promptly utilized media to disclose the actual transaction situation where the proportion of shares purchased by big individual investors declined drastically while small and medium-sized investors played a leading role in the purchase of shares on the first day of listing of new shares like those in Yechiu Metal and People.cn, with an aim of helping investors better understand the risks in participating in the new shares trading. According to the SSE, it will prevent and curb the new share speculation by earnestly toughening the implementation of the two "Notices". At the same time, it will continuously study the optimization on the transaction mechanism at the preliminary stage of new shares listing, strengthen the suitability management on investors of new shares and perfect the long-acting management mechanism for investors to participate in the trading of new shares, for the purpose of leading the market to rationally engage in the trading of new shares.

Adjustment List for SSE Wealth Mid-Small Index
15 May 2012
Adjustment List for SSE Wealth Mid-Small Index The following adjustments will be effective on the first trading day of June, 2012. Adjustment List for SSE Wealth Mid-Small Index: Deletion List Addition List Stock Code Stock Name Stock Code Stock Name 600051 Ningbo United Group 600106 Chongqing Road&Bridge 600075 Xinjiang Tianye 600116 Three Gorges Water Conservancy and Electric Power 600090 Xin Jiang Hops 600156 Hunan Huasheng 600206 Grinm Semiconductor Materials 600167 Luenmei Holding 600247 Chengcheng Group 600195 China Animal Husbandry Industry 600252 Zhongheng Group 600201 Inner Mongolia Jinyu Group 600258 Beijing Capital Tourism 600289 Bright Oceans Inter-Telecom Corporation 600259 Rising Nonferrous Metals Share 600292 Chongqing Jiulong Electric Power 600273 Huafang Textile 600343 Shaanxi Aerospace Power Hi-Tech 600375 Hualing Xingma Automobile 600366 Ningbo Yunsheng 600379 Baoguang Vacuum Electronic Apparatus 600386 Beijing Bashi Media 600396 Jinshan Energy 600479 Zhuzhou Qianjin Pharmaceutical 600409 Sanyou Chemical Industries 600482 Fengfan Stock Limited 600418 Jianghuai Automobile 600486 Jiangsu Yangnong Chemical 600423 Liuzhou Chemical Industry 600487 Hengtong Optic-Electric 600488 Tianjin Tianyao Pharmaceutical 600513 Jiangsu Lianhuan Pharmaceutical 600502 Anhui Water Resources Development 600576 Zhejiang WHWH Industry 600530 Shanghai Jiaoda Onlly 600652 Shanghai Ace 600532 Shandong Huayang Technology 600682 Nanjing Xinjiekou Department Store 600575 Wuhu Port Storage&Transportation 600702 Sichuan Tuopai Shede Wine 600577 Jingda Special Magnet Wire 600372 China Avic Avionics Equipment 600586 Jinjing Science & Technology 600712 Nanning Department Store 600594 Guizhou Yibai Pharmaceutical 600735 Shandong Hiking International 600676 Shanghai Jiao Yun 600745 Join·In (Holding) 600725 Yunnan Yunwei Company 600767 Winsan Industrial Corporation 600759 Hainan Zhenghe Industrial Group 600816 Anxin Trust & Investment 600782 Xinyu Iron & Steel 600855 Beijing Aerospace Changfeng 600873 Meihua Holdings Group 600858 Silver Plaza Group 600962 SDIC Zhonglu Fruit Juice 600898 Sanlian Commerical     600979 Sichuan Guangan AAA Public Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. May 15 , 2012  

Notice of Launching Questionnaire Survey on "Scheme of Perfecting Delisting System of SSE-listed Companies (Draft Version)"
10 May 2012
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently published the "Notice of Publicly Soliciting Opinions on 'Scheme of Perfecting Delisting System of SSE-listed Companies (Draft Version)'". With a view to rationalizing the delisting system of listed companies and protecting the rights and interests of investors, the SSE herby launches online questionnaire survey on the Draft Version for investors and other market participants to put forward relevant opinions and suggestions. Investors and other market participants who would like to contribute their opinions and suggestions to the Draft Version can complete and submit the questionnaire attached below before May 20, 2012. Thanks for your great support for the SSE's work. SSE Company Management Department May 9, 2012

SSE Take Measures to Cement Investor Protection
07 May 2012
With a view to implementing the requirements of Chairman Guo Shuqing for taking investor protection as the central task of regulatory work and striving to improve the market environment and the investment culture, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has targeted at enhancing investors' abilities in rational investment and improving the quality of the blue chip market in a bid to further strengthen the service-oriented awareness, deepen the investor education, propel the construction of the blue chip market, toughen the regulation on the market and open up a new landscape for the investor protection. First of all, the SSE has launched a series of publicity activities particularly for the guidance for rational investment to enhance investors' abilities in rational investment. From this February, the SSE, by giving full play to the function of self-regulation and the advantage in publicity channels, has launched a series of activities for publicizing the protection of investors themed the guidance for rational investment within three months. Firstly, it organized scores of feature articles and research reports on investor education on relevant securities newspapers concerning the "four speculations" (speculation on new shares, small-cap stocks, bad-performed shares and short-term investment), the dividend distribution of listed companies, the reform in delisting system and other hot topics. Secondly, it continuously upgraded ways of publicity, such as shooting public benefit advertisements for investor protection, broadcasting special programs on TV and setting up QQ groups for contact persons of member units for investor education, in a bid to expand the channels for publicizing rational investment. Thirdly, it conducted the theme activities like the "Talkfest Held on February 8 for Small, Medium-sized Investors" and the "Appraisal on March 15 Excellent Cases of Investor Education" by focusing on rational investment and value investing. Fourthly, it cooperated with the local securities regulatory bureaus in organizing the special training of guidance for rational investment for contact persons, trainers and heads of business departments from member units for investor education. Meanwhile, it required all the companies to conduct no less than 3 internal trainings with each for no less than 50 people in the internal organizations to give full play the major role of member units in guiding rational investment. Besides, the SSE has organized the IPO simulated price inquiry for small and medium-sized investors so as to promote the investors to study and know more about new shares. In order to propel small and medium-sized investors to learn about new shares and guide rational investment, and meanwhile respond to a new round of reform in the issuance system, the SSE recently organized the pilot prize competitions of IPO simulated price inquiry for 2000 small and medium-sized investors recommended by 20 member units. So far, the simulated price inquiries of Beijing Cuiwei Tower Co., Ltd., ZheJiang AoKang Shoes Co., Ltd. and Sichuan Star Cable Co., Ltd. have been rounded off, with the rates of investors' participation being 90.30%, 86.55% and 94.1% respectively. According to an SSE official, the activities highlighted the direction for small and medium-sized investors to rationally participate in the investment in new shares. Firstly, the SSE has formulated the scheme for price inquiry activity through earnest research, implementing investor education in major sections of scheme design. Secondly, it has organized securities companies to guide investors for serious study on new shares and rational participation in price inquiries for new shares. Thirdly, the SSE has organized the shooting of training-related videos such as the "Interpretation on Rules and Procedures of IPO Simulated Price Inquiry" and the "Interpretation on Platform-based Operational businesses", so as to help securities companies and investors understand the rules and procedures. Fourthly, the SSE has organized some investors to attend the promotion meetings for IPO road shows and held the lectures on industry analysis of new shares, with an aim of helping investors better understand the issuance and pricing procedures for new shares and the cautions for investment in new shares. Fifthly, the SSE has solicited opinions from the market in time, summed up the experience and optimized the procedures. Moreover, the supervision on the trading at the preliminary stage of new shares listing has been cemented against the speculation on new shares. Concerning the currently prevailing problems including the speculation on new shares conducted by small and medium-sized investors in a blind approach, the SSE further supervised the trading at the preliminary stage of new shares listing. At the end of February, the SSE, in response to the abnormal fluctuation of the prices of the new shares issued by Universal Scientific Industrial Co., Ltd. and Jishi Media Co., Ltd. at the beginning of listing, adopted relevant measures in time by imposing warnings on a batch of accounts speculating on the new shares. Besides, the SSE imposed the disciplinary punishment of 3-month trading restrictions on the two accounts seriously violating relevant regulations. On March 8, the "Notice of Strengthening Trading Supervision at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing" (the "Notice" for short) was released to specify thoughts and focuses on the supervision on the trading at the preliminary stage of new shares listing in the future as well as adjust and perfect the types of relevant abnormal trading behaviors and regulatory measures. According to sources, the SSE, in a notice issued by it, also required its member units to publicize the "Notice", deepen the understanding of investors on the hazards of speculation on new shares and guide the rational and standardized trading of new shares. In addition, the suitability management system has been implemented in an all-round approach to urge its member units to guard the market entry. At the beginning of this February, according to the development thought of "unified market-entry conditions, information disclosure, credit assessment requirements, investor suitability system and arrangements for investor protection" put forward for the bond market, the SSE formulated and issued the "SSE Provisional Measures on Investor Suitability Management in Bond Market" and the "SSE Guidance of Investor Suitability Management in Bond Market". According to an SSE official, the above regulatory documents specified the basic requirements and detailed standards for the classified management and suitability assessment of the investors in the bond market, and guided relevant work of securities companies, in a bid to ensure the solid implementation of the suitability management system in the bond market and the stable operation of the market. Furthermore, the SSE conducted a systematical sorting of the categories of investors and products and studied on the establishment of the systems of product risk alert, product classification, market-entry for investors and investors' classified management in the process of innovation. Finally, the construction of the blue chip market has been boosted to better reward investors. The SSE has boosted the construction of the blue chip market in order to better reward investors and enhance the appeal of the blue chip market. Firstly, relevant research and publicity on the construction of the blue chip market were intensified by holding the symposium on "value investing and construction of blue chip market", and organizing the compilation of articles on the blue chip's investment value as well as conducting the construction of the multi-tiered blue chip market and studying subjects such as long-term investors' participation in the market with relevant institutions, with an aim of providing supports for the development of the multi-tiered blue chip market. Secondly, the blue chip market index system and products have been perfected as well. The SSE launched SSE 100 and 150 Indices recently after SSE 50, 180 and 380 Indices. Moreover, the SSE will launch SSE Select Industries Indices, SSE Leading Consumption and Services Index and SSE Banks Index. Remarkably, the ETF products of core indices have been actively developed by the SSE. Huatai-Pinebridge SHSE-SZSE300 ETF, the first cross-market ETF, has been smoothly issued recently. Thirdly, the SSE spared no efforts to enhance the market quality and better reward investors by coordinating with, participating in and implementing systematical reforms related to the new share issuance, dividend distribution, delisting and trading-charge cut.

SSE Select Industries Indices, SSE Leading Consumption and Services Index and SSE Banks Index To Be Launched
04 May 2012
Designed to serve as new investable benchmarks for investors, SSE and CSI today announced the upcoming launch of SSE Select Industries Indices, SSE Leading Consumption and Services Index and SSE Banks Index on May 28th 2012. Regarding the methodologies and more details of the above indices, please refer to the official website of SSE (www.sse.com.cn) and CSI (www.csindex.com.cn). Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. May 4th, 2012 [SSE Select Industries Indices Methodology]

Notice of SSE’s Adjustment to Some Charging Standards
30 Apr 2012
Notice of SSE’s Adjustment to Some Charging Standards (2012-04-30)   All market participants,   Upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby adjusts some charging standards from June 1, 2012 onwards as follows:   I. The charging standard for the A-share trading handling fee drops to 0.087‰ from 0.11‰ according to trading amounts;   II. The initial fee and annual fee for listing are charged according to different positions as follows:     Total Share Capital Initial Fee for Listing (Unit: RMB10,000) Annual Fee for Listing (Unit: RMB10,000) RMB0.2 billion (Inclusive) 30 5 RMB0.2 billion-RMB0.4 billion (Inclusive) 45 8 RMB0.4 billion-RMB0.6 billion (Inclusive) 55 10 RMB0.6 billion-RMB0.8 billion (Inclusive) 60 12 Over RMB0.8 billion 65 15   The total share capital mentioned in the above charging standards involves A shares and B shares instead of H shares. When it comes to the annual fee for listing, the total share capital should be calculated according to the sum of the total share capital of A shares and that of B shares at the end of last year.     Shanghai Stock Exchange April 30, 2012  

Q&A on "Scheme of Perfecting Delisting System of SSE-listed Companies (Draft Version)"
29 Apr 2012
Based on the sum-up of the practices of the delisting system in China, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the "Scheme of Perfecting Delisting System of SSE-listed Companies (Draft Version)" (the "Scheme" for short) by learning the experience of overseas mature capital markets, in a bid to perfect the market restraint mechanism, further promote the reform of the capital market, encourage the sound development of the blue chip market in Shanghai and protect investors' legal rights and interests. 1. What are the reasons for perfecting the delisting system of listed companies? The delisting system of listed companies is a fundamental system of the capital market. As its disadvantages, such as the sole delisting standard and the lengthy delisting procedures, emerge under the backdrop of the continuous growth and reform of the capital market, the current delisting system fails to give full play to the survival-of-the-fittest function and adapt to the practical needs completely. In a bid to maintain the rational state of metabolism and dynamic balance, encourage the establishment of the survival-of-the-fittest system and propel the standardized, sound and smooth market development, efforts should be made to further perfect the delisting system of listed companies, thus further promoting the optimized allocation of the capital market's resources, improving the overall quality of listed companies and protecting the legal rights and interests of small and medium-sized investors. 2. What is the general work plan of perfecting the delisting system of listed companies? Concerning the major problems in the current delisting system, the "Scheme", in the principle of activeness and stability, with an aim of establishing a clear and effective delisting system, has adjusted the current delisting system in two main aspects. Firstly, the delisting procedures are perfected by improving the operability of the delisting system, adding indicators for delisting and confirming conditions for listing resumption. Secondly, in order to further protect investors' legal rights and interests, the "Scheme" also puts forward transitional measures and arrangements for delisting including the risk alert board, the collection board for delisting, the service of transferring stocks of delisted companies and the listing resumption of companies. 3. What are current delisting requirements for listed companies? What delisting requirements have been adjusted and added by the "Scheme"? According to the current "Stock Listing Rules", the major delisting requirements for listed companies on the SSE are as follows: (1) continuous losses for recent years; (2) fail to disclose the annual report or semi-annual report in the legal period; (3) fail to correct the significant errors or false contents in the financial accounting report; (4) equity distribution fails to meet relevant listing requirements; (5) unqualified for listing requirements after change of total share capital; (6) bankruptcy announcement; (7) dismissal. Based on the aforesaid requirements, the "Scheme" has adjusted and added some delisting requirements in light of regulatory experience and delisting regulations in the overseas markets, thus further enriching and perfecting the system of delisting standards. (1) Delisting requirements related to net assets and business income Listed companies' losses in net assets shows that they fall into insolvency and lose the basis of continuous operation. Listed companies' low business income or no business income indicates that they are incapable of normal operation and further development. These companies, from the perspective of the effects on the market and the investors, lose the abilities of continuous operation and are unsuitable for listing. Therefore, relevant standards should be added as delisting requirements. (2) Delisting requirements related to non-standard audit opinions That listing companies are successively given the audit reports with adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion on their financial reports usually implies that they are incredible in the performances on continuous operation. These companies, under such circumstances, are unsuitable for listing as their investors lose the basis for the investment decisions. The delisting requirement of non-standard audit opinions is helpful to further exert the function of intermediaries as professional institutions in judgment and propel listed companies to improve the quality of disclosed financial information. (3) Delisting requirements related to trading volume and trading prices of shares By following the practice of the international securities market, the delisting requirements related to trading volume and trading prices of shares in terms of market trading are added to the "Scheme". These requirements reflect market efficiency, conducive to promoting the market-oriented operation on delisting of listed companies, improving the objectivity of delisting standards and establishing a scientific and diversified delisting indicator system. 4. What requirements and procedures have been perfected for listing resumption in the "Scheme"? Are listed companies allowed to apply for delisting themselves? At present, to prevent the companies whose listing are suspended from resuming listing by dint of adjusting financial indicators and other methods, the requirements of listing resumption have been perfected in the "Scheme" by reference to the method of calculating initial public offering and re-financing, which takes the lower one of the net profits before and after excluding extraordinary profit and loss as the standard for judging profits. Meanwhile, if the listed companies which are given by the accounting firm the audit reports with adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion on their financial reports in the most recent year after listing of their shares has been suspended due to dissatisfying the stipulated requirements in net profit, net assets, business income or audit opinion, listing of their shares should be terminated and the SSE won't accept their applications for listing resumption of their shares. As for the case that some companies which apply for listing resumption fail to provide supplementary remarks or relevant materials within the stipulated period and other cases for postponing delisting, the "Scheme" further specifies the procedures for applying for listing resumption, stipulating that the companies whose shares' listing are suspended should supplement the materials of application for listing resumption for not more than 30 trading days accumulatively. Moreover, according to current relevant regulations in the "Stock Listing Rules", listed companies are allowed to initiatively apply for delisting and terminate their listing according to their own performances and development needs. 5. What specific measures have been taken in the "Scheme" to establish the corresponding delisting risk release mechanism? To get well-prepared for delisting, the corresponding delisting risk release mechanism is established in the "Scheme" in the two aspects as follows. On one hand, the current risk alert system for special treatment has been perfected. The risk alert board is established for the SSE-listed companies, which distinguishes the companies with significant risks from other companies on the main board. Besides, more measures on limiting transactions will be taken and the trading arrangements different from those on the main board will be conducted according to the need of risk alert. On the other hand, the delisting arrangement board is established, providing the share transfer service for to-be-delisted companies for 30 trading days. Listing of these companies' shares should be terminated after 30 trading days. Furthermore, the SSE requires listed companies to strengthen the notices of delisting risks and fully disclose delisting risks for protecting the interests of investors. 6. How will delisted companies' shares be handled? Is there any channel for transferring these shares? Are delisted companies allowed to resume their listing? Delisted companies' shares can be transferred on the share transfer board specially established by the SSE, the agency share transfer system of the Securities Association of China or other national or qualified regional over-the-counter markets. Therefore, investors holding the shares in delisted companies' still have channels for shares transfer. Delisted companies can apply for re-listing according to relevant regulations if they meet the requirements for initial public offering and listing of shares through the assets reorganization, bankruptcy reorganization or other methods. 7. When will the "Scheme" come into effect? How will relevant problems be handled during the period of the transition from old rules and new ones? The "Scheme" has been published for soliciting opinions from the public. Based on relevant opinions and suggestions, the SSE will amend the "Scheme" and formulate relevant supporting rules in time. As for the companies whose shares' listing was suspended before January 1, 2012, the SSE will make decisions of listing resumption or termination in line with old rules before December 31, 2012. After the implementation of new rules, the delisting requirements involving net assets, business income and audit opinion are pursuant to the data in listed companies' annual reports of 2012 taken as those in the most recent year, the data in annual reports of 2011 and 2012 as those in the recent two years and so on. After the implementation of new rules, the shares in listed companies which directly meet the requirements of listing suspension or termination before the treatments of delisting risk alert are imposed on their shares will be given the period of 60 trading days for share transfer. After 60 trading days, the SSE will make corresponding decisions of listing suspension or termination on them.

Notice of Publicly Soliciting Opinions on "Scheme of Perfecting Delisting System of SSE-listed Companies (Draft Version)"
29 Apr 2012
All market participants, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the "Scheme (Draft Version) of Perfecting Delisting System of SSE-listed Companies" with a view to perfecting the delisting system of SSE-listed companies, giving full play to the survival-of-the-fittest function of the delisting system, protecting the rights and interests of investors and promoting the sound development of the SSE's blue chip market. The SSE hereby solicits opinions on the scheme from the public. Please send your opinions or suggestions on the scheme to the SSE in written form or by e-mail before May 20, 2012. Fax: 021-68811782; E-mail: listing@sse.com.cn Mailing address: The Company Management Department of the Shanghai Stock Exchange, No. 528 South Pudong Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120 Shanghai Stock Exchange April 28, 2012

Overview of Annual Reports of 2011, 1Q Reports of 2012 of SSE-listed Companies
28 Apr 2012
Overview of Annual Reports of 2011, 1Q Reports of 2012 of SSE-listed Companies (2012-04-28)   April 28, 2012 witnessed the completion of disclosure of annual reports of 2011 and 1st quarter reports of 2012 of the listed companies on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE). As scheduled, all 938 listed companies disclosed their annual reports of 2011 (Five new listed companies out of them disclosed their annual financial materials by way of prospectus), while 936 listed companies disclosed 1st quarter reports of 2012.   During the period of disclosing the annual reports, the SSE organized and guided the disclosure of listed companies’ annual reports through various ways. The “Notice of Doing a Better Job for Disclosing Annual Reports of 2011 for Listed Companies” released by the SSE standardized the disclosure. Besides, the SSE, in the form of memorandum on the work of annual reports, further guided the disclosure of narrative information that investors were concerned, such as management’s discussion and analysis, internal control and occupation of non-operational capital. Moreover, the SSE, by attaching importance to the XBRL-based Filing System of Annual Reports, specified the contents for the disclosure. All this have improved the overall quality of the disclosure.   Preliminary statistical analysis unveiled the following features of SSE-listed companies’ annual reports of 2011:   I. Overall performance witnessed a modest increase, while return on net assets saw a slight decline.   According to statistics, in 2011, SSE-listed companies boasted RMB17.8389 trillion business income, RMB2.1859 trillion business profit and RMB1.6423 trillion net profit owned by shareholders of listed companies, or jumps of 28.6%, 17.18% and 15.92% year on year (obviously less than those for 2010), respectively.   SSE-listed companies’ weighted average earning per share, return on net assets, net asset value per share, and net cash flow from operating activities per share in 2011 stood at RMB0.55, 14.99%, RMB3.6704, and RMB0.9861, or an increase of 8%, a drop of 2%, an increase of 10.3% and an increase of 12.9% year on year, respectively.   Compared with the overall performance of SSE-listed companies, big-cap blue chips and constituent stocks of SSE Dividend Index stood out for their great performance increases, with their profitability higher than the average on the market as well.       Earning per share (yuan) Return on net assets (%) Net asset value per share (yuan) SSE market 0.55 14.99 3.6704 SSE 50 0.6891 17.30 3.9833 SSE 180 0.6132 16.30 3.7610 SSE Dividend Index 0.6531 12.28 5.3166     II. The proportion of listed companies distributing dividends saw a rise with both the proportion of listed companies distributing cash dividends and that of the total cash dividend to the total net profit increased as well.   Statistics show that a total of 571 firms put forward schemes of profit distribution or capitalization from capital public reserve in their annual reports of 2011, accounting for 60.87% of the total that had disclosed the annual reports of 2011. Specifically, 553 (or 58.96%) firms planned cash dividend distribution. Moreover, the total cash dividend to be distributed by listed companies accounted for 29.55% of the total net profit of all SSE-listed companies. Both the proportion of listed companies distributing dividends and that of the total cash dividend to the total net profit saw year-on-year increases.   III. The differentiation of industrial performances was intensified.   According to industry statistics, the construction industry and the finance & insurance industry boasted most dramatic increases in performance of 2011. The average earnings per share in the two sectors respectively witnessed increases of 27.51% and 20.57% year on year, much higher than the increase rate of SSE-listed companies’ overall performance.   Furthermore, the agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry and fishery industry, the transportation and storage industry, as well as the industry of production and supply of electricity, gas and water, due to the effects exerted by the economic cycle and the external environment, suffered dramatic declines in their performances, with the average earnings per share seeing year-on-year decreases of 44.36%, 41.51% and 17.67%, respectively.   IV. The number of listed companies suffering losses increased.   A total of 8.32% (or 78) companies suffered loss in 2011, while the proportion in 2010 was 6.07%.   Among those suffering loss, 62 firms were newcomers, 15 were imposed with delisting risk alert (marked with *ST) for losses for two consecutive years, and listing of 1 was suspended for losses for three years in a row.   Another 41 companies turned losses into gains.   V. The proportion of non-standard audit opinions was almost the same as that in 2010.   Of the 938 SSE-listed companies which had disclosed their annual reports of 2011, 59 (or 6.3%) firms faced with non-standard audit opinions on their financial accounting reports. The above figures were almost the same as those in 2010.   The 59 firms facing with non-standard audit opinions can be further classified into 51 companies facing with unqualified audit opinion with stressed issues, 3 with qualified opinion, 4 with qualified audit opinion with stressed issues and 1 with disclaimer of opinion.   Upon preliminary statistics of 1st quarter reports of 2012, the weighted average earning per share, return on net assets, and net asset value per share were RMB0.1452, 3.79% and RMB3.8347, respectively.   Source: Shanghai Stock Exchange  

SSE's Active Role in Guiding Rational Investment
23 Apr 2012
The SSE organized the first prize competition of IPO simulated price inquiry for small and medium-sized investors on April 12, with a view to implementing relevant requirements of the China Securities Regulatory Commission for guiding rational investment by urging small and medium-sized investors to have a better knowledge of new shares. On April 19, the SSE invited some small and medium-sized investors actively participating in the prize competition to watch the on-site road show of Sichuan Star Cable Co., Ltd. (Star Cable) in Shanghai. At the road show, the small and medium-sized investors had all-round information of the to-be-listed company Star Cable by earnestly hearing its introductions of shares issuance, significant events and investment value analysis in addition to reading its IPO Prospectus. The investors said that it was the first time that they had experienced the IPO road show themselves on the site and it helped them to know about the business conditions of the would-be-listed company in a direct way. It is learnt that the SSE and the Beijing Securities Regulatory Bureau (BSRB) recently co-sponsored a Beijing-based special training class for guiding rational investment for heads of business departments of securities companies. Deputy Director Chen Zhen of the BSRB and relevant officials of the SSE attended the meeting. According to an SSE official, securities companies' guidance for rational investment is not only a regulatory requirement but also an objective demand to foster stable clients, prevent operational risks and enhance core competitiveness. He stressed that the business departments of all securities companies should fully understand the importance of rational investment, continuously strengthen the self-consciousness of guidance for rational investment and implement the requirements of rational investment in every aspect of their corporate businesses.

SSE Vice President Stresses Institutional Investors' Role in Blue Chip Market
23 Apr 2012
Institutional investors can do a better job in the guidance of value investing and the promotion of corporate governance. More efforts should be made to give full play to their role in the blue chip market, said Vice President Xu Ming of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) at the "2nd Global Summit on Fund". Xu said that sound-management-featured market participants are crucial to the safe operation and functioning of the capital market. Institutional investors have developed into a major force in the capital market. Their growth will play a fundamental role in perfecting the operational mechanism in the financial market as well as creating the healthy and mature investment culture. Statistics showed that by the end of 2011, professional institutional investors had held 15.7% of the total stocks in the securities market. "Outstanding progresses have been made in terms of the size and products of China's financial institutions as well as the market share of institutional investors. However, compare with those in mature markets, we have witnessed sizeable gaps as regard to the investment proportion of institutional investors in the domestic capital market and the involvement of long-term funds in the market. Multi-endeavors should also be made to encourage the growth of investors, especially institutional investors, increase their investment proportion in the capital market and spur the involvement of long-term funds in the capital market", said Xu. Xu held that institutional investors could guide value investing and long-term investment and create a healthy investment culture. According to statistics, the proportion of large-cap blue chips' market value exceeds 80% in institutional investors' portfolios. Xu held that with their advantages in funds, research and technologies, institutional investors could make more rational decisions and explore the targets with long-term investment values. Instead of frequent transactions for profits, institutional investors tend to conduct steady investing behaviors and hold stocks for a long time, which could effectively alleviate the stock price fluctuation caused by unreasonable transactions. Besides, Xu stressed that institutional investors are of great significance to perfecting the governance of listed companies. Specifically, institutional investors could urge listed companies to consummate the structure of corporate governance and the level of corporate governance by exercising shareholders' rights, supervising and stimulating corporate management teams, as well as constraining controlling shareholders' behaviors. Xu said that in China, institutional investors could involve themselves into corporate governance in addition to boosting the building and perfection of corporate power balance mechanisms in a variety of approaches. For instance, they could exercise voting rights against insiders' control in companies, indirectly or directly affect corporate managers' behaviors, urge the establishment of reasonable remuneration system, propel more scientific decision-making of mergers and acquisitions, attach importance to social responsibilities, drive more standardized information disclosure, put higher requirements to intermediaries such as securities companies, accounting firms and rating agencies for indirectly fueling corporate governance, as well as pushing forward the perfection of the market systems, investment environment and market rules. Xu also said that the SSE blue chip market would provide a vast space for institutional investors in light of their great role in the capital market. According to the strategic arrangement and deployment made by Shanghai for building an international financial center, the SSE, in the market-oriented principle, is forging an integrated market composed of the crucial blue chip market, the bonds market, the funds market and the derivatives market by optimizing services and pursing innovation, with an aim of providing a perfect platform for the investment of institutional investors in the securities market. On the other hand, the SSE will offer diversified products and services to value-oriented investors by innovating its products and trading systems. Xu introduced that SHSE-SZSE300 ETF, which was being issued, was not only a key product of the SSE, but also a sole cross-market product that had adopted the "T+0" subscription and redemption mechanism. The launch of SHSE-SZSE300 ETF, a major measure for boosting the building of the blue chip market and value investing, was very important for increasing incomes from long-term investment and improving the market efficiency.

SSE Investor Education TV Series "Blue Dreams" Awarded
23 Apr 2012
In 2010, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) launched the large-scale Investor Education TV Series "Blue Dreams" to publicize the knowledge of the securities market and guide the rational investment of investors. Recently, "Blue Dreams" won the only 2nd prize (vacancy for the 1st prize) in the Category of Educational TV Series in the appraisal of the 2009-2010 national legal-system-themed movies and TV series. Besides, "Blue Dreams" was also the only capital-market-themed project that won the honor in the securities and futures systems. The above appraisal, supported and guided by the Ministry of Justice of the P.RC. as well as held by the All-China Legal Journalists Association, aimed to give full play to the news publicity's positive role in ruling the country according to laws as a fundamental principle and building the socialist country under the rule of law, and to boost the thriving development of the legal journalistic industry. Out of the 1,200 works recommended by the Central and regional agencies, more than 200 works were awarded in the appraisal. "Blue Dreams", recommended by the Law Popularization Office of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, was shortlisted and awarded finally. "Blue Dreams" is a large-scale TV documentary produced by the SSE in collaboration with Xinhua News Agency Shanghai Branch. The investor-education-themed TV series refines and unfolds the typical cases and historical events on domestic and foreign securities markets by focusing on the ABCs of securities, the laws and regulations in the market and the prevention from investment risks.

SSE 100, 150 Indices Released Today
20 Apr 2012
As the essential part of multi-tiered blue chip market index system of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), SSE 100 and 150 Indices are officially released today. SSE 100 and 150 Indices respectively closed at 3,944.50 and 3,374.46 yesterday, with the respective accumulative increase by 294.45% and 237.45% since the base day. Besides, SSE 100 and 150 Indices respectively realize RMB792.7 billion and RMB455.8 billion in the aggregate market value, with the latest trailing price-earnings ratios of 20.38 and 52.22 respectively. As the SSE core investment index of rising companies with blue chip shares, SSE 100 Index, by taking SSE 380 Index as the sample space, selects as the samples the top 100 shares with the best performances in both the growth rate of business income and the rate of return on net assets. As the SSE core investment index of promising companies with blue chip shares, SSE 150 Index, by taking the eligible shares on the Shanghai stock market with the constituents in SSE 180 and 380 Indices excluded as the sample space, selects as the samples the top 150 shares with the best performances in the growth rate of business income and the turnover rate. The latest data shows that the aggregate market capitalization of most SSE 100 Index constituents is between RMB1.5 billion and RMB10 billion and that of most SSE 150 Index constituents is below RMB5 billion. SSE 100 and 150 Indices, with large industrial distribution, respectively cover 19 and 20 out of all 25 second-tier industries according to CSI's industry classification standard. In light of the industrial weights, the top three industries in SSE 100 Index are capital goods, raw material and pharmacy, biotechnology and life science, with the weights of 24.50%, 21.44% and 11.80%, respectively; the top three industries in SSE 150 Index are raw material, food, beverages and tobacco as well as capital goods, with the weights of 13.51%, 12.36% and 11.83%, respectively. The first three quarters of 2011 saw an average growth rate of about 34% in the business income of SSE 100 Index constituents. The daily turnover rate of SSE 150 Index constituents exceeded 3%, speaking a lot to the active trading.

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2012 Labor Day
19 Apr 2012
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces its market closure schedule for 2012 Labor Day according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2012" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2011] No. 52) as follows: the SSE will close from April 29 (Sunday) to May 1 (Tuesday) and open for trading on May 2 (Wednesday). It will also close on the weekend on April 28 (Saturday). Please make relevant arrangements according to this notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange April 19, 2012

SSE, SSRB Co-host Training Class for Guiding Rational Investment
17 Apr 2012
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the Shanghai Securities Regulatory Bureau (SSRB) jointly held a training class particularly for guiding rational investment yesterday. In attendance were heads of nearly 500 business departments from Shanghai-based securities companies. As required by the SSRB, every securities company should fully understand the importance of the guidance for rational investment and the investor suitability management, and ceaselessly improve its work systems and business processes. To be specific, efforts should be made to transform the two aspects to internal mechanisms in the work of every securities company's business departments, effectively integrate the mechanisms in businesses and expand the mechanisms in client development and innovative business development. The training class offers the analysis of market regulation cases, the introduction to the SSE ETF market, the introduction to the SSE bond market, the investor suitability management and investor education as well as other courses. The rational-investment-oriented courses, characterized by popularization, practicability and timeliness as well as rich contents and thorough explanation, focus on the actual situation in the market and the current hot issues. For instance, the course of the introduction to the SSE ETF market elaborates on the basic knowledge of ETF, the overview of the international ETF market, the status quo of the domestic ETF market, the ETF trading rules, the application of investment strategies and other contents. In addition, this course gives a detailed account of SHSE-SZSE300 ETF, the first cross-market ETF on the SSE, with a view to supporting the market innovation and guiding the rational investment. After the training, the trainees understand that the launch of SHSE-SZSE300 ETF and other core index ETF products, an important move to promote the construction of the domestic blue chip market, is of great significance to advocating the concepts of rational investment, value investing and long-term investment. According to sources, the SSE will cooperate with relevant securities regulatory authorities to successively organize more training classes for guiding rational investment in a bid to push forward the construction of rational investment culture. In doing so, the SSE hopes that securities companies will fully realize the importance of rational investment and investor suitability management. Especially, their business departments directly serving investors will give full play to a leading role in publicizing and guiding rational investment, with an aim of doing a good job in investor education, service and protection.

SSE Adopts New Measure for Fund Market
06 Apr 2012
The "SSE Business Guidelines for Operational Risk Management of ETF Management Companies", issued by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) today (April 6), was SSE's new major measure oriented for the fund market after the release of the "Guide for One-stop Service of ETF Operation" in March this year. The recent two years have witnessed the rapid development and substantial market of ETF products. The diversified growth of ETFs makes higher requirements on the operation and management of fund management companies. Based on years of practices, the SSE worked out the above guidelines by studying the intrinsic operational rules of ETFs and synthesizing the operation and management experience of various fund management companies. According to sources, the guidelines requires that fund management companies regulate the operational procedure and anti-risk measures of ETFs by heightening the construction of relevant internal-control mechanisms and specifying the employees and systematical deployment for ETF-related businesses of fund management companies. Moreover, the guidelines requires that a fund manager should do all he can in risk disclosure and investor education for the interests of fund holders.

Constituent Periodical Review of SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index
28 Mar 2012
Constituent Periodical Review of SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index (To be effective as of Apr 5th 2012)     Deletions Additions Bond code Bond shortened name Bond code Bond shortened name 122012 08保利债 120490 04南网⑵ 122028 09华发债 122023 09万业债 122080 11康美债 122036 09沪张江 122888 10华靖债 122089 11马钢01 122931 09临海债 122102 11广汇01 122937 10辽源债 122106 11唐新01 122940 09咸城投 122834 11牡国投 122944 09株城投 122890 10凯迪债       Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 2012-3-28  

SSE 100 Index and SSE 150 Index to be launched
26 Mar 2012
To further enhance the SSE index family as well as to provide new analysis tools and underlying instruments for investors, Shanghai Stock Exchange and China Securities Index Co., Ltd announced that the SSE 100 Index and SSE 150 Index would be launched on Apr 20, 2012. Shanghai Stock ExchangeChina Securities Index Co., Ltd Mar 26, 2012 [SSE 100 Index Methodology]     [SSE 150 Index Methodology]     [Constituents List]

SSE Multi-tiered Blue Chip Market Index System Improved with SSE 100, 150 Indices
26 Mar 2012
After years of development, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has basically developed a multi-tiered blue chip market index system composed of the indices based on shares of typical companies represented by SSE 180 constituents, shares of rising companies represented by SSE 380 constituents and shares of promising companies with great potential in growth. To show the characteristics of shares in various market levels and provide new investment targets for investors, the SSE and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) recently announced that they would release SSE 100 and 150 Indices on April 20, 2012, each with the base day of December 31, 2003 and the base point of 1,000 points. According to the compilation scheme, SSE 100 Index, by taking SSE 380 Index as the sample space, selects as the samples the top 100 shares with the best performances in both the growth rate of business income and the rate of return on net assets to highlight the characteristics of rising companies in growth. SSE 150 Index, by taking the eligible shares on the Shanghai stock market with the constituents in SSE 180 and 380 Indices excluded as the sample space, selects as the samples the top 150 shares with the best performances in the growth rate of business income and the turnover rate to reflect the characteristics of promising companies in active stock trading and rapid development. It is learnt that more and more small and medium-sized enterprises go public on the SSE. When the number of the promising listed companies with blue chip shares increases to a certain extent, the SSE is going to compile and release SSE 580 Index with eligible samples, which will be taken as the benchmark index for promising companies with blue chip shares. At that time, the SSE benchmark index series consisting of SSE180, 380 and 580 Indices as well as the corresponding SSE core investment index series made up of SSE 50, 100 and 150 Indices will be set up. These two index series will become a basic part of SSE index series, helping promote the establishment of a multi-tiered blue chip market and lay a solid foundation for the development of ETFs and other traded products based on the indices. The latest data shows that SSE 100 and 150 Indices realize RMB797.6 billion and RMB457.9 billion in the aggregate market value respectively. Besides, the historical data reveals that the above two indices rose at an annual rate of 17.12% and 14.27% from 2004 to 2011 respectively.

Notice of Issuance of "SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of ETF Business"
23 Mar 2012
All member units and fund companies, Upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby issues the "SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of ETF Business", which shall come into effect from the issuance date. Meanwhile, the "SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of ETF Business" (Shang Zheng Guo Zi [2004] No. 20) issued by the SSE in 2004 shall be abolished. Shanghai Stock Exchange March 23, 2012

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2012 Tomb Sweeping Day
22 Mar 2012
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for 2012 Tomb Sweeping Day according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2012" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2011] No. 52). The SSE will close from April 2 (Monday) to April 4 (Wednesday) and open for trading on April 5 (Thursday). It will also close on the weekends on March 31 (Saturday) and April 1 (Sunday). Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange   March 22, 2012

SSE Releases Report on Work of Self-regulatory Management in 2011
19 Mar 2012
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) released the "Report on the Work of Self-regulatory Management in 2011" today. According to the report, the SSE examined a total of 36,482 announcements of listed companies, post-checked 3,652 periodic reports, imposed temporary trading suspension and continuous trading suspension of shares for 3,235 and 484 times respectively, and issued 852 regulatory documents in 2011. Besides, it further improved relevant regulations and regulatory rules about information disclosure, providing listed companies with clear and detailed stipulations for standardized operation and information disclosure. As stated in the report, in 2011, the SSE, in terms of self-regulatory management, made major efforts on the following aspects of work. First of all, it went all out to provide support and guarantee for the regulation by optimizing the system of business rules and perfecting the law enforcement mechanism of self-regulatory management. In this respect, the SSE, in light of the united deployment of regulatory work, played an active role in providing support and guarantee for the regulation by focusing on the sorting and improvement of business rules as well as the optimization of disciplinary mechanism. Besides, the SSE made new achievements in self-regulatory management by keeping toughening the supervision on listed companies and expanding the regulatory scope. On one hand, it tightened the regulation on listed companies and promoted the construction of the blue chip market. In particular, regarding the optimized regulation on merger, acquisition and reorganization as well as the improved services for the reinforced rationalization of listed companies, it accepted 47 companies for access to the procedures of significant assets reorganization in 2011, among which 25 companies disclosed the announcements on reorganization upon examination on information disclosure and verification in the secondary market. Moreover, 65 companies completed merger, acquisition and reorganization. Among the 65 companies, 40 companies completed significant assets reorganization tasks and 25 ones changed actual controllers. On the other hand, it strengthened the self-regulatory management of members, supported the members in the development of innovative businesses, formulated and issued the "Professional Evaluation Measures on Implementation Schemes for Pilot Members' Innovative Businesses", created an expert group for the evaluation of innovative businesses, and completed the professional evaluation on the agreed repurchase securities trading business for 6 pilot companies and the collateralized quotation repo of bonds for 15 ones. Furthermore, the SSE toughened the regulation on the market trading, improved the efficiency in regulation and strengthened the regulatory enforcement. In 2012, the SSE will be faced with more pressure and challenges in the self-regulatory management as a severe test will fall on the domestic economy and the global economy and the external environment will be more complicated for the development of the capital market. Therefore, the SSE, by closely following and earnestly implementing the requirements of the Central Economic Work Conference, the National Financial Work Conference and the National Work Conference on Securities and Futures, will further give play to the active role of the blue chip market, offer better services for the scientific development and transformation of the real economy in China, effectively prevent and resolve the risks in the financial market, and push forward the suitability and effective regulation. Specifically, the SSE will do the tasks as follows. First, it will strengthen the risk monitoring and anticipation and prevent the systematic risks of the market. Second, it will lay emphasis on the key points in the regulation and work out new measures for improving the regulation on listed companies. Third, it will deepen the management of members and non-members and drive the innovation and development of members' businesses. Fourth, it will cement the initiative regulation and risk monitoring and toughen the regulation on the market trading. Fifth, it will stabilize the regulatory rules and perfect the mechanism of integrity regulation.

SSE Urges Securities Companies to Strengthen Investor Education in Rational Investment
13 Mar 2012
In order to urge securities companies to strengthen investor education in rational investment, improve the professional qualities of their personnel engaged in investor education and promote the cultural development of rational investment, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), in line with the united deployment of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), held the mobilization meeting and the lecturer training class for the special lecture tour themed "guidance for rational investment" yesterday, with the attendees being over 200 contact persons for investor education and internal lecturers from over 100 securities companies. Also present at the activity were relevant persons-in-charge of the CSRC Investor Protection Bureau and the SSE. A person-in-charge of the SSE pointed out that it was the right time to guide the rational investment in the capital market. Research shows that the speculation on new shares, small-cap shares and bad-performed shares respectively in a blind, crazy and greater-fool approach, frequent trading and other irrational investment behaviors on the market are the important causes for the longstanding sluggish market and the investors' losses. According to the data for the 4 kinds of new shares whose trading was temporarily suspended on the first day of listing on the SSE due to abnormal trading from 2009 to 2011, the small and medium-sized investors played a major role in buying shares on the upswing, 90% of whom suffered losses. Therefore, it is of great significance to guide and promote investors to conduct rational investment for the protection of their legal rights and interests. The person-in-charge stressed that guidance for rational investment was not only a regulatory requirement but also an objective demand for securities companies to foster stable customers, prevent operational risks and boost core competitiveness. Securities companies should play a major role in the guidance for rational investment and the publicity of relevant knowledge, which can be specified as follows. First, securities companies should enhance the consciousness of guidance for rational investment and implement the requirement into every aspect of corporate businesses. Second, they need to establish a full-fledged investor service system as well as keep on adapting to new situations, learning new knowledge and improving the services for customers. Third, they need to publicize the knowledge about rational investment in a wide and deep way with multiple publicity means and optimized methods. In future, the SSE would continue to push forward the cultural development of rational investment, adopt effective measures to promote the formulation of relevant rules and regulations, upgrade the relevant regulatory environment and create a cultural atmosphere of rational investment. An official of the CSRC Investor Protection Bureau said that the protection and services for investors was a systematic project, which required the whole society, especially the market participators, to join in. The CSRC, in compliance with the market demands, had set up the investor protection bureau and established a work system for the protection and services for investors, with the CSRC as the leading role, the exchanges, the securities associations and other self-regulatory organizations as well as all the units in the securities community as the main force, the securities and futures agencies as the main implementers and the media as the constructive participators and supervisors. Securities companies, as the agencies directly serving investors, are the major force for the protection and services for investors, which should play their roles and perform their duties in the investor education and services. The official put forward four requirements for securities companies to do well in the protection and services for investors as follows. Firstly, securities companies need to take the lead in guiding investors to conduct rational investment and value investing. The personnel engaged in the services for investors need to get rid of the interest-oriented ideas, focus on the understanding and actively lead investors to conduct rational investment in a bid to promote the formation of good investment habits and sound investment culture on the market. Secondly, they need to push forward the investor suitability management by managing investors in terms of levels, grades and categories, providing them with differentiated and individualized services and selling products to suitable investors. Thirdly, they need to inform investors of relevant information and risks in an active, objective, true and adequate way, and guide the investors to make rational judgments and choices. Fourthly, they need to persevere in penetrating the education and services for investors into the daily work of their personnel engaged in investor education. As soon as the mobilization meeting came to an end, the lecturer training class for the special lecture tour began. According to sources, the SSE would cooperate with the branches of the CSRC in various areas this year to successively hold 18 rounds of special lecture tours for rational investment, with the trainees to be the professionals engaged in investment education in the business departments of all the securities companies and the trainers to be mainly the SSE's experts and the excellent lecturers selected from the trainees of securities companies in the lecturer training.

SSE to Curb Speculation with Technique, System
08 Mar 2012
In its research report "Four Categories of Speculation: The Reasons for Long-term Market Downturn and Investors' Loss" published today, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) gave an in-depth analysis on the reasons for the prevailing of four kinds of speculation, namely, new shares speculation, small-cap stocks speculation, underperformed stocks speculation and frequent trading, on China's capital market before proposing to crack down on speculation with both technique and system. On the technical level, the SSE will beef up market supervision by, according to actual conditions, imposing trading limits on the accounts with such abnormal trading behaviors as making orders in a large sum or at high prices, or conducting frequent false orders and withdrawals. For the accounts frequently involving scalping and refusing to correct their rule-breaking behaviors within a certain period, the SSE will identify them as unqualified investors, impose trading restrictions for several days on them and file with the China Securities Regulatory Commission for punishment, with an aim to more accurately and effectively crack down on these rule-breaking behaviors. On the system level, firstly, it is needed to further the education and risk alert for investors. Secondly, efforts should be made to actively and smoothly promote the IPO system reform and free the issuance pace, in a bid to realize the coordinated and sound development of the primary and secondary markets. Thirdly, with an aim of eliminating theme-related speculation against listed companies' fundamentals, it is a must to restrict the conducts of bonus shares or capitalized shares by listed companies characterized by large amounts and high proportions. Fourthly, more effects should be made to perfect and strictly implement the delisting system to curb speculation on underperformed companies. Fifthly, it is required to guide listed companies to establish persistent, clear and transparent cash dividend policies and decision-making mechanisms, in addition to strengthening supervision and restriction on the companies failing to distribute dividend according to promised proportions or failing to fulfill the dividend distribution obligation for a long time. In the final place, more institutional investors should be cultivated to give further play of their roles in the guidance and demonstration of value-oriented investment.

Adjustment List for SSEF 300 Index and Other Index
08 Mar 2012
Adjustment List for SSEF 300 Index and Other Index   GAC Changfeng Motor (600991) is to be delisted due to taken-over. The following adjustments will be effective on the delisting day.   Index Name Deletion List Addition List Code Name Code Name SSEF 300 600991 GAC Changfeng Motor     SSEF 500 600991 GAC Changfeng Motor         Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd 2012.3.8  

SSE to Strengthen Supervision on Blue Chip Market
08 Mar 2012
The blue chip investment has increasingly become the common concern of both regulatory authorities and market participants. The SSE, with an aim of building a blue chip market, is faced with both arduous tasks and rare development opportunities. "Under the current circumstances, the SSE blue chip market has begun to take shape. By the end of February in 2012, the SSE boasts 934 listed companies with the total market value of RMB16.6 trillion, or about 35.5% of the GDP in the same period. Up to now, 237 listed companies on the SSE, each with the market value of over RMB10 billion, totaling 83% of the total market value on the SSE, are the constituents of the SSE's blue chip market," said Geng Liang, SSE Governor and Member of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference in Beijing yesterday. On the other hand, the market value of 91 loss-stricken listed companies, or 10% of the total on the SSE, accounts for 2% of the total market value, while that of 94 meager-profit-featured listed companies with the net profit of RMB0.07 per share, or 10% of the total, accounts for 2.2% of the total. The market value of these companies adds up to only 4.2% of the total. "With a view of developing the blue chip market, efforts should be made to attract, support and encourage well-performed companies to go public on the SSE. Last year, the SSE embraced the listing of 39 large-scale quality companies, a record-high number in the last decade. Besides, more pains should be taken to facilitate the reorganization, merger and acquisition of listed companies, their overall listing and expansion. Last year, 44 listed companies succeeded in their reorganization, merger, acquisition and overall listing," continued Geng. The SSE will continuously attach importance to strengthening supervision. First, it will keep supervising the information disclosure of listed companies. Second, it will go all out for the market supervision by curbing insider trading and market manipulation. Third, it will cement the daily supervision on the securities companies and other member institutions as well as crack down on their rule-breaking activities.

Notice of Strengthening Supervision on Clients' Trading Behaviors at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing
08 Mar 2012
All member units, It is a significant step for the current capital market to promote the coordinated and sound development of the primary and secondary markets by deepening the implementation of requirements of the guidance to investors for their rational participation in the securities trading and curbing over-speculation on newly issued stocks recently put forward by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. Due to the wide involvement and heavy work of the trading supervision at the preliminary stage of new shares listing, all member units should attach more importance to taking risk-proof measures on the new shares speculation. Relevant issues are hereby notified as follows: 1. Making Efforts in Publicity on Relevant Notice In the "Notice of Strengthening Trading Supervision at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing" (shortened to the Notice), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) specifies the vision and keystones of the trading supervision at the preliminary stage of new shares listing, adjusts and supplements types of relevant abnormal trading behaviors and perfects supervision measures for the purpose of more pertinence and operability. For the clients, especially those having the history of new shares trading, all member units and their business departments should take effective measures to do a good job in publicity and explanation of the Notice and enhance the investors' understanding and awareness of the significance, content and relevant requirements of preventing the new shares speculation. 2. Improving Risk Alert on Clients' Participation in Trading of New Shares Due to the greater price fluctuation risk at the preliminary stage of new shares listing, member units should continuously carry out the investor education activity themed "Risks in New Shares Speculation" by adding the risks of new shares trading to the content of investor education, with an aim of guiding clients to conduct rational and standard trading of new shares. Members should enhance the publicity on the activity themed "Risks in New Shares Speculation" at their business departments, remind clients of the risks in the new shares trading at conspicuous places of their websites and explain to clients about the risks in the new shares trading by their quotes analysis systems, online trading systems, telephone voice systems, short messages and others. 3. Fulfilling Management Obligations on Clients' New Shares Trading Member units should notify the clients having abnormal trading behaviors as stipulated in the Notice in time and take measures to curb these behaviors by strengthening the management on the clients' trading behaviors at the preliminary stage of new shares listing. For the clients having severe abnormal trading behaviors and refusing to correct their rule-breaking behaviors, members units, according to relevant regulations in the "Detailed Rules on Members' Management of Clients' Securities Trading Activities", can reject their entrustment, or terminate securities transaction entrustment relationship with them, and report to the SSE. Headquarters of member units should improve the supervision and inspection on the management of new shares trading of clients of their affiliated business departments. 4. Coordinating with SSE to Conduct Supervision on New Shares Trading In a bid to coordinate with the SSE to conduct the cooperative supervision on the new shares trading, headquarters of member units should designate persons responsible for the supervision on the new shares trading and file the name lists with the SSE as required. The persons-in-charge of member units' business departments will directly take charge of the cooperative supervision on the new shares trading in their business departments. The SSE will impose regulatory measures or disciplinary punishment on the securities accounts having abnormal trading behaviors of new shares. Accordingly, relevant member units or their business departments should timely adopt effective ways to deliver relevant supervision information to clients and retain relevant evidence. According to requirements, the SSE will issue the list of accounts under strict surveillance in the new shares trading to member units. Accordingly, member units should notify relevant clients of the SSE's relevant regulatory information in time before taking measures to standardize and restrict the new shares trading behaviors of these accounts. 5. Supervision and Inspection After receiving this notice, member units should submit relevant work schemes and measures to implement the requirements in this notice to the SSE. The results of members' management on their clients' new shares trading behaviors will be major references for the assessment on the compliance management of members' clients. The SSE will carry out special inspections on the members' implementation of this notice. For the members who do not implement this notice effectively, the SSE will adopt the following regulatory measures: I. For any member with two clients' securities accounts whose trading has been restricted by the SSE due to abnormal new shares trading behaviors in one year, the SSE will interview its senior management. II. For any member with more than three clients' securities accounts (inclusive) whose trading has been restricted by the SSE due to abnormal new shares trading behaviors in one year, the SSE will issue supervisory attention letters to them according to actual conditions. III. For any member with more than five clients' securities accounts (inclusive) whose trading has been restricted by the SSE due to abnormal new shares trading behaviors in one year, the SSE will issue criticism notices among members according to actual conditions. March 8, 2012 Shanghai Stock Exchange

Q&A by SSE Official on "Notice of Toughening Supervision on Trading at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing"
08 Mar 2012
An official of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) made remarks in an interview about the "Notice of Toughening Supervision on Trading at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing" (hereinafter called the Notice) recently released by the SSE. Q: Could you tell us the background and significance of the Notice? A: As for the capital market, it is now crucial for the SSE to implement the requirements of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) for curbing over-speculation on new shares and to promote the sound and coordinated development of the primary and secondary markets. The stock market in China has been obsessed by the speculation on new shares for a long time, which makes the prices of new shares prone to serious deviation from their real value. It not only fundamentally distorts the market structure and affects the stock market's function of resources allocation, but also causes the investors making high-price orders to suffer great losses. The SSE has been attaching importance to cracking down on new shares speculation. In recent years, the SSE has spared no efforts to publicize the harmful effects of new shares speculation through various ways and employed multiple regulatory measures to tighten the punishment on the rule-breaking behaviors. It has recently imposed the regulatory punishment of trading limits on the two accounts with their owners respectively surnamed Huang and Su who were engaged in the over-speculation on new shares. In the Notice formulated and released this time, the SSE, based on the former relevant regulations and regulatory experience, toughens the supervision on trading at the preliminary stage of new shares listing, aiming to further improve the fairness and rationality of the new share pricing mechanism, prevent and curb the new shares speculation, better protect the investors' legal rights and interests as well as promote the reform on the new share issuance system. Q: Could you give us an introduction to the stipulations in the Notice for curbing new shares speculation? A: The Notice, mainly based on relevant regulations in the "Trading Rules of SSE" (hereinafter called the Trading Rules), the "Detailed Rules on SSE Members' Management of Clients' Securities Trading" and the "SSE Guidance for Real-time Supervision on Abnormal Securities Trading" (hereinafter called the SSE Guidance), makes further supplements and improvements to be more pertinent and operable regarding the mechanism of the in-session temporary trading suspension of new shares on the first day of listing, the abnormal trading behaviors to be strictly supervised at the preliminary stage of new shares listing and relevant regulatory measures, the SSE members' responsibilities of client management and other aspects. The Notice mainly include the following contents: I. The index threshold for in-session temporary trading suspension. As stipulated in the Notice, the SSE has the right to impose the in-session temporary trading suspension on any new shares which have one of the following three abnormal fluctuations on the first day of listing: (I). the in-session trading price over 10% (inclusive) higher or lower than the intraday opening price for the first time; (II). the in-session trading price over 20% (inclusive) higher or lower than the intraday opening price; (III). the in-session turnover rate (the turnover divided by the actual number of the intraday listed shares) up to over 80% (inclusive). For any new shares whose trading is suspended due to the Clause (I), trading of the new shares should be suspended for only once on the same day with the duration of 30 minutes. If the time for trading suspension last till or past 14:55, trading of the new shares should be resumed at 14:55 on the same day. For any new shares whose trading is suspended due to the Clauses (II) and (III), trading of the shares should be suspended till 14:55 on the same day. Special attention for investors: If the turnover rate for trading of new shares has reached or exceeded 80% during the stage of call auction when the stock market opens, the SSE will impose the in-session temporary trading suspension on the new shares at 09:30 till 14:55. In addition, investors have the rights to revoke the unconcluded orders during the in-session temporary trading suspension. II. Scope of application. The stipulations regarding the in-session temporary trading suspension in the Notice, in terms of category, are applicable to the new shares on the first day of listing as well as the shares with no price limits whose trading is resumed after temporary suspension and which are additionally issued on the first day of public listing. Relevant stipulations in the Notice, in terms of time, are applicable to the new shares at the preliminary stage of listing. Namely, the first 10 trading days after listing is fixed according to market practices and regulatory demands. III Abnormal trading behaviors in trading of new shares. The Notice specifies the following new shares trading behaviors to be abnormal trading behaviors: (I). The same account or the multiple accounts controlled by the same controller accumulatively buy over 1‰ of the actual number of the new shares on a single day; (II). The same account or the multiple accounts controlled by the same controller conduct intraday offsetting trading or frequent offsetting trading every other day in a large amount; (III). During the stage of call auction or in 15 minutes before closing, the account has a severe impact on the opening or closing prices of new shares through high-priced, large-volume or continuous orders or frequent orders and withdrawal of orders or other ways; (IV). During the stage of consecutive auction, when the latest trading price approximates the intraday highest trading price, the account accumulatively buys over 0.2‰ of the actual number of new shares upon making an order at the price no less than the lowest real-time purchase price disclosed on the market; (V). The account buys a large amount of new shares at the price of 2% higher than the latest trading price disclosed on the market before the order is made; (VI). The account has a severe impact on the trading prices of new shares by making market orders in a large sum upon entrustment. In the aforementioned Clause (IV), "the latest trading price approximates the intraday highest trading price" means that one of the ask prices in the best five ask and bid prices timely disclosed is no lower than the intraday highest trading price. If the stock prices reach the upper trading limit after the first day of listing, the account is not allowed to accumulatively buy over 0.2‰ of the actual number of new shares upon making an order at the price of the upper trading limit. Besides, "the lowest real-time purchase price disclosed" refers to the fifth bid price in the best five ask and bid prices timely disclosed. IV. Regulatory measures for the accounts conducting abnormal trading behaviors. Apart from the present regulatory measures, the Notice additionally stipulates two regulatory measures, that is, the in-session temporary trading suspension of the account on the very day and identifying the account owner to be an unqualified investor. V. The SSE members' responsibilities of client management. The Notice stresses the SSE members' responsibilities of management on clients' trading behaviors at the preliminary stage of new shares listing, requiring the members to monitor clients' new shares trading behaviors and to timely warn clients and take measures to stop them when finding their abnormal trading behaviors. To this end, the SSE also releases to the members the "Notice of Strengthening Supervision on Clients' Trading Behaviors at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing" in a bid to urge them to strengthen the supervision on clients' new shares trading behaviors. VI. Requirement for professional institutional investors. The Notice requires the professional institutional investors engaged in fund and insurance as well as the securities brokers (engaged in proprietary trading and assets management) to enhance the conception of value investing and rationally participate in the trading of new shares. Q: What aspects of the Notice have been adjusted compared with the SSE's former relevant regulations? A: Compared with the Trading Rules, the SSE Guidance and other current business rules, several aspects have been adjusted in the Notice as follows: First, the price limit for the in-session temporary trading suspension has been narrowed down. In order to effectively curb the risk of speculation on new shares on the first day of listing, the Notice decreases the price limit in the SSE Guidance for the in-session temporary trading suspension to 10% and 20%. Second, the index of turnover rate for the in-session temporary trading suspension has been newly added. The Notice stipulates that when the turnover rate of new shares reaches or exceeds 80% on the first day of listing, the in-session temporary trading suspension will be imposed on the new shares and trading of the new shares won't be resumed until 14:55. Special attention: After the Notice comes into effect, the Clause (I) of the Clause III in the SSE Guidance won't be applicable any longer. Investors are advised to watch closely and understand thoroughly the aforementioned stipulations in the Notice and to prudently participate in the trading of new shares, the shares newly resumed and those additionally issued. Third, the types of abnormal trading behaviors for new shares have been clearly defined. The SSE, based on the practical experience in the supervision on the trading of new shares, clearly defines several kinds of abnormal trading behaviors for new shares to be strictly monitored, with an aim of preventing hoarding, driving up prices, keeping purchasing on the upswing, manipulating opening or closing prices, frequent offsetting trading and other behaviors. Fourth, two regulatory measures on abnormal trading behaviors for new shares have been supplemented. The SSE, based on the former regulatory measures for abnormal trading behaviors, newly adds the in-session trading suspension of the account on the very day. It has the right to suspend the account, whose owner refuses to correct the rule-breaking behaviors after warning, for new shares trading on the very day in a bid to speed up curbing the speculation on new shares. Moreover, the SSE newly adds the regulatory measure of identifying the account owner to be an unqualified investor. As for the stubborn rule-breaking investor, the SSE has the right to identify him to be an unqualified investor and keep him off the market for a period of time. Q: What efforts will the SSE make on the follow-up supervision on new shares speculation? A: As the reasons for new shares speculation are complicated, the SSE has a long way to go to control and prevent it. It needs to take all factors into consideration and keep exploring and perfecting the regulatory measures, particularly with the concerted efforts of all market participators. The SSE, in line with the united deployment of the CSRC and the principles of step-by-step implementation as well as on the basis of the Notice and other regulations released by the SSE and the new changes and requirements for the supervision on new shares speculation, will further study new measures to control the new share speculation, continuously adjust and perfect the new share trading mechanism, and adopt more pertinent regulatory measures to rationalize the trading prices of new shares. Meanwhile, the SSE will, by adhering to the strategy of developing the blue chip market, further enhance the self-regulatory supervision, establish a long-acting management mechanism for investors to rationally participate in the trading of shares and guide the investors to conduct rational investment and value investing.

Notice of Toughening Supervision on Trading at Preliminary Stage of New Shares Listing
08 Mar 2012
To all market participators, In order to toughen supervision on the trading at the preliminary stage (the first 10 trading days after listing) of listing of the IPO-related shares (hereinafter called new shares), control the speculation on new shares, safeguard the normal market trading order and protect investors' legal rights and interests, relevant issues of toughening supervision on the trading at the preliminary stage of new shares listing, according to the "Trading Rules of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE)" and other regulations, are hereby notified as follows: I. The SSE has the right to impose the in-session temporary trading suspension on any new shares which have one of the following abnormal fluctuations on the first day of listing: (I). the in-session trading price over 10% (inclusive) higher or lower than the intraday opening price for the first time; (II). the in-session trading price over 20% (inclusive) higher or lower than the intraday opening price; (III). the in-session turnover rate (the turnover divided by the actual number of the intraday listed shares) up to over 80% (inclusive); For any new shares whose trading is suspended due to the Clause (I), trading of the new shares should be suspended for only once on the same day with the duration of 30 minutes. If the time for trading suspension last till or past 14:55, trading of the new shares should be resumed at 14:55 on the same day. For any new shares whose trading is suspended due to the Clauses (II) and (III), trading of the shares should be suspended till 14:55 on the same day. The standard for the in-session temporary trading suspension of any shares with no trading limit on the SSE is subject to the aforesaid stipulation. II. After imposing in-session temporary trading suspension on new shares, the SSE has the right to announce specific time for trading suspension and resumption through the Internet and the satellite transmission system. III. The SSE has the right to toughen the supervision on the following abnormal trading behaviors occurring at the preliminary stage of new shares listing: (I). The same account or the multiple accounts controlled by the same controller accumulatively buy over 1‰ of the actual number of the new shares on a single day; (II). The same account or the multiple accounts controlled by the same controller conduct intraday offsetting trading or frequent offsetting trading every other day in a large amount. (III). During the stage of call auction or in 15 minutes before closing, the account has a severe impact on the opening or closing prices of new shares through high-priced, large-volume or continuous orders or frequent orders and withdrawal of orders or other ways; (IV). During the stage of consecutive auction, when the latest trading price approximates the intraday highest trading price, the account accumulatively buys over 0.2‰ of the actual number of new shares upon making an order at the price no less than the lowest real-time purchase price disclosed on the market; (V). The account buys a large amount of new shares at the price of 2% higher than the latest trading price disclosed on the market before the order is made; (VI). The account has a severe impact on the trading prices of new shares by making market orders in a large sum upon entrustment; (VII). The account conducts other abnormal trading of new shares the SSE regards necessary to be supervised in a strict way. IV. The SSE has the right to apply one or more of the following supervision measures to the account conducting the aforesaid abnormal trading activities: (I). Oral or written warnings; (II). Requiring to submit a commitment letter of compliance trading; (III). In-session trading suspension of the account on the very day; (IV). Identifying the account owner to be an unqualified investor. The SSE will limit trading of the account with serious rule-breaking activities and record it into the credit archives. Besides, the SSE will report the account with particularly serious rule-breaking activities to the China Securities Regulatory Commission for punishment. V. The SSE members should reinforce the management on clients' trading behaviors at the preliminary stage of new shares listing. If the members find that their clients have one of the aforesaid abnormal trading behaviors, they should warn the clients of the abnormal trading behaviors and timely take measures to stop them. The members will refuse to accept the trading entrustment of the clients who conduct serious abnormal trading behaviors and keep doing them upon warning or terminate the securities trading commission-agency relationship with customers and report them to the SSE according to relevant regulations in the "Detailed Rules on SSE Members' Management of Clients' Securities Trading". VI. Professional institutional investors engaged in fund, insurance and other securities should insist on the self-regulatory and compliance principles, actively cooperate in the implementation of this notice, enhance the conception of value investing and rationally participate in the trading of new shares. VII. The SSE, according to the market demand, has the right to adjust the standards for abnormal fluctuation and abnormal trading activities stipulated in this notice. VIII. Other issues related to the supervision on the trading at the preliminary stage of new shares listing are subject to the "SSE Guidance for Real-time Supervision on Abnormal Securities Trading" and other business rules. Relevant stipulations in the SSE's relevant business rules which have discrepancies with those in this notice are pursuant to this notice. IX. This notice shall come into effect from the promulgation day. March 8, 2012 Shanghai Stock Exchange

Symposium on "Value Investing, Construction of Blue Chip Market" Held
28 Feb 2012
To promote the concept of value investing, push forward the practice of value investing and boost the construction of the blue chip market, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held the symposium on "value investing and construction of blue chip market" yesterday. Presided over by SSE Vice President Huang Hongyuan, the symposium saw the participation of more than 30 representatives from securities companies and fund companies. Huang said in his welcoming speech that the SSE had long been committed to the construction of the blue chip market, in an effort to provide the value-oriented investors with a wide range of products and services. The remarks made recently by Chairman Guo Shuqing of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) that the blue chips with CSI 300 Index shares as the representatives are of rarely-seen value for investment posed new requirements for value investing and the construction of the blue chip market. Therefore, the SSE will be active in soliciting comments and suggestions and speed up the construction of the blue chip market, serving the development of the real economy. When addressing the symposium, the person-in-charge of the CSRC Investor Protection Bureau said that the securities companies and fund companies should play the leading role in value investing. First of all, the CSI 300 Index companies account for 65% of the total market value, 74% of the total business income and 84% of the total net profit. The data show that the blue-chip shares are the main constituents of the market and of substantial value on the stock market. The securities companies and fund companies should establish the concept of long-term, rational, and value investment and play a leading role in the whole industry as the "main force" at all levels, constantly improving the initiative and capacity in serving the investors. Second, as the systems such as new share issuance, dividends and delisting are being reformed and improved, the measures for developing the bond markets, guiding the long-term funds into the market, constructing the OTC market and the management systems of investors appropriateness are being researched and promoted and the public are developing increasing demands for wealth management, the securities companies and fund companies should seize the opportunities, take the initiative to explore and innovate without restraints. Third, on the one hand, China's stock market boasts a huge number of investors demanding better service and protection; on the other hand, the group of new investors is on constant rise. In the face of the great potential of the group of new investors, the companies should make due contributions to the formation of the sound investment culture and the establishment of investment philosophy by giving play to their professional advantages and spirits. SSE President Zhang Yujun concluded that appropriate investment choices are essential for the promotion of value investing, inevitably resulting in the demands for strengthening the construction of the blue chip market. The experiences around the world show that the blue chip market building is a long-term development process and the blue chips are scarce resources on all markets. The blue-chip companies among thousands of listed companies in the U.S. market, for example, are the constituents of Standard & Poor's 500 index, which are the pillars of the whole real economy and reflect the basic characteristics and development directions of the national economy. Over the past decade, the SSE, by adhering to the concept of "building a world-class Exchange, constructing the blue-chip market and serving the development of national economy", has initially formed the blue-chip market with the SSE 180 Index constituent stocks as the representatives. Over the years, some small and medium-sized investments have run counter to the concepts of the rational investment and value investment, which is epitomized by "speculation on newly issued shares, small-cap stocks and bad-performance stocks and short-term investment". From the perspective of value investment, these investments are extremely irrational. Currently the market has sustained about 300 new listed companies every year with rich resources of listed SMEs. With the raising of the threshold for mergers and acquisitions, the hope for an unexpected and thorough change of the underperformance shares has become slimmer. The transaction costs of frequent trading significantly affect investors' earnings. The SSE will further strengthen the market supervision and focus on curbing illegal acts such as illegally speculating on newly issued shares through the measures of "temporary suspension of trading", "public condemning", "restricted transactions" and "applying for investigations". Meanwhile, the SSE has required member companies to enhance the classification regulation of clients and make efforts in risk warning. Zhang stressed that, in order to optimize the market environment, promote the institutional construction and advance the rational investment, the SSE would take measures on the following six aspects. Firstly, it will improve the market services for more excellent enterprises to go public and further enrich the blue-chip stock market for the increase in the market value and the interest of the enterprises. Secondly, it will keep pushing forward the education and services for the investors and launch various activities for publicizing the concept of value investment, such as the activity of "Acquainting Investors with SSE 180 Index" to be held in the near term. Thirdly, it will adopt several measures to upgrade the corporate governance of the listed companies. For instance, it will reinforce the behavioral norms for the board of directors, the board of supervisors and the management, enhance the transparency of the company information, formulate more strict requirements for delisting, and perfect the procedures and requirements for merger and acquisition. Fourthly, it will make more efforts on the innovation of blue-chip products, the promotion of more products related to SSE Sector ETF and SSE Thematic ETF as well as the exploration of ETF Option and Individual Stock Option. Fifthly, it will create favorable conditions to attract into the securities market the pension and the enterprise annuity and other long-term capital whose nature determines that the blue-chip shares will be their first choice for the investment targets. Sixthly, with a view to laying a solid foundation for the rational and value investment, it will go all out for the reform on various tasks, such as the reform on the new share issuance system, the dividend distribution system, the investor suitability system, the construction of the over-the-counter market, high-return corporate bonds, etc. At the meeting, the attendees swapped their views on the topics like the long-term capital into the market and the trend of value investment, the improvement of market environment and promotion of value investment as well as the development of multi-tier blue-chip markets and the satisfaction of value-oriented investors' demands. They reached a consensus that the guidance to investors for their investment in blue-chip shares would be good to improve the pricing efficiency on the capital market and the resources allocation efficiency as well as the abilities of the capital market to serve the real economy, which would be of great significance to promote the sound and sustainable development of the capital market.

Geng Liang: Promote Value Investing Concept, Back Inflow of Long-term Funds
28 Feb 2012
SSE is Studying Issuance of SME Private Placement Bonds At the meeting of the Board of Governors held recently by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), SSE Governor Geng Liang pointed out that the SSE should promote the concept of value investing and support the investment of long-term funds into the market. The meeting discussed the 2012 SSE work plan and focused on the research in the issues related to the issuance of SME private placement bonds on the exchange and the further promotion of the SSE's innovation work. The meeting held that this year is critical for implementing the national "12th Five-Year Plan". The national economic and social development has put high expectation and more requirements on the development of the capital market. At present, the reform of China's capital market is being further deepened. To this end, in 2012, the SSE will give further play to the role as the main board market, enhance the ability of the SSE in serving the national economic development, better serve the scientific development and transformation of China's real economy, effectively prevent and timely resolve the potential risks of the financial market, and meet the demands of large enterprises and SMEs for investment and financing as well as the needs of the investors in wealth management, in a bid to build the SSE into a more mature market. It is learnt that the general guideline for the SSE's work in 2012 is making steady progress and seeking innovation-driven development. According to this guideline, the work in 2012 will focus on "1+3", which means that on the basis of ensuring the safe and steady progress in all the work this year, efforts should be made to promote the construction of the blue chip market, develop the bond market and innovate the products. At present, the SSE is researching on promoting the development of SME private placement bonds and cross-border and cross-market ETFs, expanding the pilot of quote repurchase, improving the pilot of agreed repurchase, optimizing the block trading mechanism and making effective preparation for the pilot of refinancing. Geng pointed out that the sound development of the capital market needs the formation of the mature and rational investment concepts. Over the years, the SSE has been vigorously promoting value investing and calling on the stock market to return to the theme of rational value investing. In the backdrop of the long-term stable and sound development of Chinese economy, only investing in the quality shares featuring steady and sound operation, excellent performance and conformity with the national industrial orientations is the rational choice for a mature investor. The SSE will also continue to strengthen market supervision, resolutely crack down on the activities against the laws and regulations in the market, maintain the "Openness, Justice and Fairness" on the market, vigorously carry out publicity and education of the integrity on the capital market to enhance the ethical standards of the capital market, and actively create an excellent climate for value investing. Besides, the SSE will support the long-term funds such as the pension funds investing in the market, so as to maintain the stable growth of the market.

SSE Limits Trading of Some Accounts for New Share Speculation
28 Feb 2012
In the recent active secondary market, the speculation on the newly issued shares re-gained its momentum, leading to the abnormal fluctuation of the prices of the new shares issued by Universal Scientific Industrial Co., Ltd. and Jishi Media Co., Ltd. at the beginning of listing. To prevent the risks of speculation on new shares in the market, the SSE strengthens the regulation and supervision on the trading of newly listed shares. The SSE has imposed oral or written warnings on the accounts involving the new share speculation as soon as it found their rule-breaking behaviors. It has timely imposed the disciplinary punishment of 3-month trading restrictions on the two accounts with their owners respectively surnamed Huang and Su who seriously violated the regulations and refused to take advice. The SSE has recently conducted a special study on the new share speculation in the present period. Based on current prevention measures, it will strengthen the measures on regulating the whole process of the new share speculation, and also intensify the regulation on the trading of new shares. First, in terms of the precaution against the new share speculation, the SSE will inform relevant members of the accounts frequently involving the new share speculation and require them to prevent the accounts from speculating the new shares by giving the clients risk alerts and instructions before the new shares are listed. Second, as for the intervention, the SSE will, according to the specific situations, adopt the trading limits to the accounts which make orders at high prices to drive up the opening prices in the call auction on the first day when the new shares are listed and the accounts which conduct abnormal trading behaviors like making orders in a large sum, at high prices or conducting frequent false orders and withdrawals of orders in the consecutive auction. It will report to the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) for punishment on the accounts with serious rule-breaking behaviors. As for the aftermath measures, the SSE will have interviews with or send notices of criticism to the members who do too little to monitor the accounts speculating on new shares. It will impose trading restrictions for several days on the accounts frequently involving the new share speculation and refusing to correct their rule-breaking behaviors within certain period and report them to the CSRC for punishment. Meanwhile, the SSE will study more strict measures to further regulate the trading behaviors at the preliminary stage of the new share listing. It will tighten the punishment on the accounts frequently speculating new shares. The SSE suggests that the small and medium-sized investors should have a clear understanding of the nature and harm of the new share speculation and never blindly follow suit to avoid unnecessary losses. The SSE stresses that under the new circumstance of the severe speculation on new shares in the current market, the members should actively and earnestly coordinate with the regulation on the new share speculation and spare no efforts to crack down on the bad practices, in a bid to ensure a favorable trading environment and promote the sound development of the market.

Adjustment List for SSE 380 Index and Other Indices
22 Feb 2012
Adjustment List for SSE 380 Index and Other Indices Laiwu Steelrporation（600102）is to be delisted due to taken-over. The following adjustments will be effective on the delisting day. Index Name Deletion List Addition List Code Name Code Name SSE 380 600102 Laiwu Steelrporation 600819 Syp Glass Group Governance index 600102 Laiwu Steelrporation     SSE SmallCap 600102 Laiwu Steelrporation 600283 Qian Jiang Water Resources SSE Mid&Small Cap 600102 Laiwu Steelrporation 600283 Qian Jiang Water Resources SSE Large&Mid&Small Cap 600102 Laiwu Steelrporation 600283 Qian Jiang Water Resources Responsibility Index 600102 Laiwu Steelrporation     SSE L&M&S Cap value 600102 Laiwu Steelrporation     SSE L&M&S Cap relative  value 600102 Laiwu Steelrporation 600283 Qian Jiang Water Resources SSE Midstream 600102 Laiwu Steelrporation     SSEF 200 600102 Laiwu Steelrporation     SSEF 500 600102 Laiwu Steelrporation     SSE 380 Materials 600102 Laiwu Steelrporation 600819 Syp Glass Group SSE380VW 600102 Laiwu Steelrporation 600819 Syp Glass Group 380 Value 600102 Laiwu Steelrporation     380R Growth     600819 Syp Glass Group 380R Value 600102 Laiwu Steelrporation 600819 Syp Glass Group SSE380FI 600102 Laiwu Steelrporation 600819 Syp Glass Group Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 2012.2.22  

Adjustment List for SSE 380 Index and Other Indices
21 Feb 2012
Adjustment List for SSE 380 Index and Other Indices Road & Bridge International（600263） is to be delisted due to taken-over. The following adjustments will be effective on the delisting day. Index Name Deletion List Addition List Code Name Code Name SSE 380 600263 Road & Bridge International 600560 Beijing Aritime Intelligentntrol Governance index 600263 Road & Bridge International 　 　 Responsibility Index 600263 Road & Bridge International 　 　 SSE Wealth Mid-Small 600263 Road & Bridge International 　 　 SSEF 300 600263 Road & Bridge International 　 　 SSEF 500 600263 Road & Bridge International 　 　 SSE 380 Industrials 600263 Road & Bridge International 600560 Beijing Aritime Intelligentntrol SSE380VW 600263 Road & Bridge International 600560 Beijing Aritime Intelligentntrol 380 Value 600263 Road & Bridge International 　 　 380R Growth     600560 Beijing Aritime Intelligentntrol 380R Value 600263 Road & Bridge International 600560 Beijing Aritime Intelligentntrol SSE380FI 600263 Road & Bridge International 600560 Beijing Aritime Intelligentntrol SSE380VW 600263 Road & Bridge International     Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 2012.2.21  

CSI Bond Valuation Data to Be Released via SSE
20 Feb 2012
To promote the development of the bond market and provide better services for the investors, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will release to the public the CSI bond valuation data compiled by China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) through unidirectional satellite and bond.sse.com.cn, marking another important move for the infrastructure construction of the bond market. Trading on the bond market is not as active as that on the stock market. The bond prices are subject to certain trading orders and may dramatically deviate from the reasonable values, thus misleading the market. It is common for a mature bond market to adopt the valuation system as the benchmark for the bond market prices. The bond, a type of fixed income products, has certain cash flow in its duration. The bond valuation refers to discounting the cash flow to be confirmed in the future with proper discount rate, with an aim to reflect the reasonable market value of the bond. According to an SSE official, the significance of application of bond valuation to the SSE market lies in two major aspects. On the one hand, it will be used for calculating the net value of asset portfolio. As required in relevant documents of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the fair values of the investment products that are not on the active market should be determined by a reliable valuation technique widely recognized by the market participators and validated by the former actual trading prices on the market. The release of CSI bond valuation data makes it possible for the SSE bond market to adopt the valuation for calculating the net value of bond asset portfolio in the future. On the other hand, the bond valuation can be used as the trading benchmark, namely the reference price in trading. In the process of bond trading, the traders not only need to judge the future values of certain bonds, but also need to estimate their current prices to which the bond valuation can serve as an important reference. Although a specific trading price is not necessarily the same with the valuation, it is more often than not around the valuation. CSI has established a relatively completed bond valuation system, covering treasury bonds, financial bonds, central bank bills, corporate bonds, enterprise bonds, short-term financing, medium-term notes and other bond categories. The CSI bond valuation data will be released to the public in two ways: (1) on the bond.sse.com.cn, only for the bonds listed and traded on the SSE; (2) through the SSE unidirectional satellite to market participants and relevant information vendors, covering a variety of bonds listed and traded on the SSE, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and the inter-bank market. The official also said that the SSE would expand the application of bond valuation to improve the scientific management of the bond market. In view of the domestic and international development experience in this regard, the tendency is that several institutions offer valuation services at the same time, open to different choices on the market. The CSI bond valuation provides the market with another reference for valuation. Meanwhile, it is beneficial for the valuation providers to improve their valuation systems, thus making the domestic bond valuation system more scientific and objective and facilitating the long-term development of the bond market.

SSE Holds Talkfest for Small, Medium-sized Investors
13 Feb 2012
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has held a talkfest themed "boosting transparent regulation and guiding rational investment" for small and medium-sized investors, so as to implement the requirement of unswervingly cementing the work of investor education and strengthening investors' rational participation put forwarded by Guo Shuqing, Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). Meanwhile, the talkfest unveiled a series of publicity activities sponsored by the SSE with the importance attached to advocating rational investment and strengthening protection for investors. Representatives of domestic small and medium-sized investors as well as those of relevant securities companies and media, a total of over 20 people, entered the SSE to visit the trading floor and compare notes with the SSE's major regulation business departments. An SSE official delivered a speech at the talkfest. After singing high praise for the talkfest, all the attendees held that the talkfest's theme, "transparent regulation and rational investment", was of realistic significance. The investors told their experiences and gave some advice in light of the irrational investment in the domestic securities market, such as frequent buy and sale, aimless purchase on the upswing and sale on the downswing, taking in inside information, and blind pursuit of shares with high prices, P/E ratios and risks. An SSE official said that after putting into practice, small and medium-sized investors had always been hurt due to their irrational investment. Special efforts should be made to guide rational investment in the current securities market because: (1) the interests of small and medium-sized investors could be better protected by guiding rational investment as they are the main participants in the domestic securities market; (2) in addition to the more complex trading in the securities market, such as the successive launch of margin trading and securities lending, stock index futures and other new businesses, the enhanced integration of the domestic and overseas markets has put forward new requirements to rational investment; (3) a more solid foundation will be paved for rational investment which will gradually show its advantages as the regulation on the securities market is being improved. For instance, the regulatory authority is actively urging listed companies to reward their investors by dividend distribution and in other ways and guiding long-term funds to invest in the market. The SSE official added that the fostering of rational investment culture calls for the efforts of all the market participants. The regulatory authorities and self-regulatory organizations should further create a sound market in which rational investment is encouraged, while the market service institutions including member companies should continue to improve their customer services. Moreover, investors should erect correct investment philosophies and the media should give full play to its role in publicizing rational investment. At the talkfest, the SSE's relevant departments respectively introduced the regulation on listed companies, trading and members as well as investor education and exchanged with investors, deepening mutual understanding and removing some misunderstandings. In their speeches, the investors' representatives frankly gave suggestions on the growth of the capital market, including strictly controlling new shares' prices, encouraging listed companies to reward their investors, intensifying the listed companies' investor relationship management, and enriching the content and forms of investor education. Furthermore, they hoped that relevant organs would initiate more activities of this kind. The SSE staff patiently and carefully answered all the questions raised by the investors' representatives. According to sources, the SSE has been guiding rational investment in recent years, in a bid to better serve and protect investors in the following aspects: (1) some business rules, such as the "Guidance for Real-time Supervision on Abnormal Securities Trading", the "Detailed Rules on Members' Management of Clients' Securities Trading", the "Code of Conduct for Individual Investors" and the "Guidance of Investor Suitability Management in Bond Market" have been worked out to guide and supervise the legal trading of investors; (2) the SSE has cracked down on some serious law-breakings harming investors' interests, such as new shares speculation, scalping and insider dealing, while establishing a joint regulatory system of the abnormal fluctuations caused by mergers and acquisitions by collaborating with many of its departments as well as the CSRC's relevant departments; (3) an online investors' school characterized by a combination of courses, videos and tests has been built in addition to the improvement of the online voting system of shareholders' meetings of listed companies and the launch of the hotline and E-mail for the public inquiries. According to an SSE official, the SSE will in future enhance its service consciousness and improve its work style to drive the information disclosure and transparent operation, cement the exchange with the market, and upgrade the transparency of its self-regulatory management. Furthermore, it will consolidate the basis for building a sound capital market by positively providing the investor-oriented education, service and protection in a broader approach as well as jointly fueling the cultivation of the rational investment culture in a series of activities such as the release of media articles, the spreading of TV documentaries and the launch of business training classes according to the unified deployment of the CSRC Investor Protection Bureau.

SSE Specifies Narrative Information Disclosure in Annual Reports
06 Feb 2012
In order to enhance the validity and usefulness of information in annual reports of listed companies, the Company Management Department of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently issued the "No. 5 Memorandum on Annual Reports of 2011 for Listed Companies – Requirements for Compiling the Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A)" (the Memorandum) which stresses the importance of narrative information disclosure in annual reports of listed companies and further standardizes the disclosed information in the MD&A. An SSE principal told that the MD&A would be of the highest importance in the after-action check on annual reports this year. The narrative information refers to all the non-financial information in annual reports. The MD&A, a core of non-financial information, is a necessary and beneficial supplement to financial reports. It could strengthen the transparency and validity of information disclosure. In the Memorandum, the SSE enumerates the main objectives of the MD&A, the overall requirements of compiling the MD&A and the important points in compilation. According to the document, a listed company is required to specify the significant change of the profit composition or source when compiling the Overview on Overall Operation during the Reporting Period. Besides, the company should make a summary on the development strategy and the completion of, the progress in the implementation of or the adjustments to the business plan disclosed previously; it should account for the discrepancy if the actual business performance is over 20% lower or higher than the publicly disclosed profit prediction or business plan of this year. Meanwhile, a listed company should elaborate on the compositions of the incomes and profits in the reporting period on the basis of the classifications of industry, product and area according to its own conditions. It should itemize the income, cost and gross profit margin and analyze the changes as for the businesses accounting for over 10% of the total business income or business profit and its industry as well as the main products under the same circumstance. Moreover, the company should disclose the changes in the market and the compositions of operating costs in terms of its main businesses; it should explain the reasons if relevant data are over 20% lower or higher than those during the reporting period in the year before. Based on what have been mentioned above, as required in the Memorandum, a listed company should disclose the information about main suppliers and clients; it should expound major factors for significant changes in the compositions of its assets on a year-on-year basis and the reasons for the significant discrepancy between the cash flow accruing from business operations and the net profit during the reporting period. In addition, the Memorandum stipulates in details the compilation of the information about the business operations and the analysis of performances related to major subsidiaries and stake-taken companies of listed companies, the subjects controlled by listed companies with special purposes, the prospect for future development, and so on. Detailed requirements for compilation are specified in the Memorandum in addition to the defined contents. Firstly, listed companies are required to provide dynamic information. Namely, a listed company should carry out all-round discussion and analysis on the major businesses, the capital use and sources and the major financial issue from the perspective of its management. It should provide the dynamic information from which investors could correctly understanding the corporate financial status, operational performance and cash flow, so that investors could learn from the company's management more about its current situation and the trend of its future development as well as the possible risks and uncertainties. Secondly, more importance should be attached to key information. Namely, a listed company's compilation work should cover the short-term and long-term analysis on its future, release the most important information from the company's management's perspective and focus on the major issues and uncertainties that are known by the company's management and might lead to difficulty in displaying the company's future operational performance and financial situation in the company's financial report, including the issues that have exerted major influence on the reporting period but with no impact on the company's future growth and the issues that have exerted no influence on the reporting period but with major impact on the company's future growth. Moreover, a listed company is required to do more analysis work and show its individuality while compiling in a simple approach with practical work from its management. Both the market insiders and investors sing high praise for the Memorandum. "The stress on the narrative information disclosure will be conducive to enhancing the utility of annual reports for investors' decision-making," said an expert, "A financial report reflects historical information, while the MD&A emphasizes the disclosure of forward-looking information. The latter will build a bridge between the history and the future by analyzing relevant financial data in a company's financial report, reminding of the intrinsic risks and uncertainties in its operation, elaborating on the trend of the industry that the company belongs to, the company's measures, development strategy and operational plan, as well as disclosing the company's management's appraisal and analysis on the company's previous business performance and its judgment and prediction on the company's development trend and prospect". However, several investors held that a financial report reflects quantitative information, while the MD&A features qualitative information. The latter further analyzes relevant information disclosed in a company's financial report. Especially, it fully reminds investors of risks by making remarks on the risks and uncertainties in the company's operation. More importantly, all the above information is conducive to boosting the fairness of information disclosure by shrinking the information asymmetry between institutional investors and retail investors. Furthermore, it provides a platform for listed companies to disclose their information on their own initiatives, enhances the pertinence of information disclosure and make the market fully reflect corporate value.

4 SSE Memos to Regulate Listed Firms' Annual Report Disclosure
30 Jan 2012
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) releases at the beginning of the Chinese New Year 4 memoranda on the work of annual reports of 2011 in response to the forthcoming peak of annual report disclosure. The 4 memoranda involve internal control reports of listed companies, announcements on performance prediction of the companies with delisting risk alerts, occupation of non-operational capital, registration of insiders in annual reports, etc. It is especially mentioned that if a company with delisting risk alert predicts a profit in 2011, it should provide the special remarks issued by the CPA in charge of annual audit while disclosing an announcement on performance prediction. Again, the above memoranda show the SSE's high concern about the risks derived from the companies under special treatments. Generally, the companies featuring delisting risk realize the "security shell" by subsidy injection, assets sale, etc. with their business performance data "dramatically improved" as well. Thus, the SSE has put forward stricter requirements towards the supervision over the above illegal actions. The No. 2 memorandum requires that if a company with delisting risk alert due to its losses for 2 consecutive years in 2009 and 2010 continues to suffer a loss in 2011, the company's stocks will face the risk of listing suspension. Therefore, the company's directorate should seriously examine its profit and loss in 2011 and release in time an announcement on performance prediction. If the company predicts a profit in 2011, it should provide the special remarks on profit pre-audit issued by the CPA in charge of annual audit while disclosing an announcement on performance prediction. Moreover, the memorandum stresses again that the above company should make an announcement on performance prediction before January 31, 2012 according to relevant requirements in the "SSE Stock Listing Rules" whether it made a profit in 2011 or not. If it predicts a loss in 2011, it should issue an announcement on alert of listing suspension risk before January 31, 2012 and release the same announcement  for 2 times at least before disclosing its annual report. The SSE has strengthened the registration of insiders in the listed companies characterized by high proportions of bonus shares or capitalized shares. In addition to requiring to smoothly complete the registration and filing of insiders of listed companies' annual reports, the SSE emphasizes that the companies with high proportions of bonus shares or capitalized shares (5 bonus shares and 5 capitalized shares or above for every 10 shares) in their profit distribution schemes of 2011, if necessary, should file relevant insiders' information with the SSE within 10 working days after disclosure of their annual reports. The No. 3 memorandum involves the disclosure of the occupation of listed companies' non-operational capital and the transfer of other related funds. It is required that a listed company with capital occupation by major shareholders and their affiliated enterprises for non-operational purpose should make additional disclosure of the occupation date, amount, reason, repayment amount, ending balance, predicted repayment mode, discharging date, principal and the directorate's planned solutions in the "Creditor's Rights and Liabilities between Related Parties" in the "Significant Events" in the full text of its annual report. The SSE stresses that a listed company should seriously judge whether the "transfer of other related funds" is the transfer of non-operational capital by referring to long-term arrears. In the No. 1 memorandum, the SSE made explicit requirements on compilation, discussion and disclosure of internal control reports as follows: the SSE-listed companies in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector, the companies who issue shares both domestically and overseas as well as the financial companies are required to disclose their internal control reports. In addition, other listed companies planning to apply for entering the SSE Corporate Governance Sector are encouraged to disclose their internal control reports. Furthermore, the listed companies conducting trials of internal control reports are also encouraged to disclose their internal control reports and the audit reports on internal control of financial reports issued by their CPAs.

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2012 Spring Festival
16 Jan 2012
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the Spring Festival of 2012 according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2012" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2011] No. 52) as follows: 1. The SSE will close from January 22 (Sunday) to January 28 (Saturday) and open for trading from January 30 (Monday) onwards. It will also close on the weekends on January 21 (Saturday) and January 29 (Sunday). 2. Relevant clearing issues will be carried out according to the arrangements of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. 3. To ensure the normal trading after the holiday, the SSE will conduct a linkage test towards its trading systems (including the block trading system and the comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities) from 09:30 to 12:00 on January 29, 2012 (Sunday). Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange January 13, 2012

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2012 Spring Festival
12 Jan 2012
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the Spring Festival of 2012 according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2012" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2011] No. 52) as follows: 1. The SSE will close from January 22 (Sunday) to January 28 (Saturday) and open for trading from January 30 (Monday) onwards. It will also close on the weekends on January 21 (Saturday) and January 29 (Sunday). 2. Relevant clearing issues will be carried out according to the arrangements of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. 3. To ensure the normal trading after the holiday, the SSE will conduct a linkage test towards its trading systems (including the block trading system and the comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities) from 09:30 to 12:00 on January 29, 2012 (Sunday). Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange January 13, 2012

SSE High and New Technology Enterprises Index To Be Launched
12 Jan 2012
Designed to serve as new investable benchmarks for investors, SSE and CSI today announced the upcoming launch of SSE High and New Technology Enterprises Index on Feb 10th 2012. Regarding the methodology and more details of the above index, please refer to the official website of SSE (www.sse.com.cn) and CSI (www.csindex.com.cn). Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. Jan 12th 2012

SSE High and New Technology Enterprises Index To Be Launched
12 Jan 2012
Designed to serve as new investable benchmarks for investors, SSE and CSI today announced the upcoming launch of SSE High and New Technology Enterprises Index on Feb 10th 2012. Regarding the methodology and more details of the above index, please refer to the official website of SSE (www.sse.com.cn) and CSI (www.csindex.com.cn). Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. Jan 12th 2012

Postpone the Launch of SSE 300, SSE 100 and SSE 100 EW Indices
09 Jan 2012
SSE and CSI together decided to postpone the scheduled launch of SSE 300, SSE 100 and SSE 100 EW Indices on Jan 10th 2012. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. Jan 9 2012

SSE Launches Appraisal on Excellent Cases of Investor Education
09 Jan 2012
To give play to the role of cases in investor education, display the members' investor education achievements, promote experience exchange between the members and enhance the efficiency in investor education, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently released to all its member units the "Notice of Appraisal on March 15 Excellent Cases of Investor Education" in response to the Day for the Protection of Consumer Rights and Interests in 2012, so as to urge them to join in the appraisal. In accordance with the requirements in the notice, each member unit should submit their pre-elected excellent cases (each company can submit three cases) before February 15 to the SSE, who will finish the appraisal and give commendation before March 15. It is learnt that the materials of the cases filed for appraisal are required to feature clear-cut theme and well-organized structure. Besides, the materials could involve but not limited to the popularization of securities knowledge and risk disclosure for inexperienced investors, the precaution against illegal securities trading, the popularization of knowledge in new securities products and businesses and the risk disclosure. The appraisal establishes the first, second and third prizes, the nomination award as well as the outstanding organization award for the excellent cases. Experts from the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Securities Association of China, China Securities Investor Protection Fund Corporation Limited and the media will be invited to conduct the preliminary examination, anonymous review and final assessment, in a bid to ensure the fairness, openness and justice of the appraisal. After the appraisal, the materials of awarded cases will be compiled and published on the SSE's investor education website and in relevant securities journals. This appraisal is designed to display the members' achievements in investor education, promote exchange and resources sharing and drive constant innovation in the content and form of investor education, said an SSE official. A few member units said that they would support the appraisal by organizing their staffs engaged in investor education to take an active part in the appraisal with their submissions.

Constituent Periodical Review of SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index
27 Dec 2011
Constituent Periodical Review of SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index (To be effective as of Jan 4th 2012)     SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index: Deletions Additions Bond code Bond shortened name Bond code Bond shortened name 122052 10石化02 122092 11大秦01 122067 11南钢债 122020 09复地债 122831 11惠通债 122875 10红投02 122844 11筑城投 122888 10华靖债 122928 09铁岭债 122028 09华发债 122996 08常城建 122931 09临海债 126013 08青啤债 122857 10九华债 126002 06中化债 122059 10重钢债       Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 2011-12-27  

SSE Launches Classified Bond Management, Trading System
24 Dec 2011
The "SSE Provisional Measures on Investor Suitability Management in Bond Market" is promulgated today (December 24, 2011) and will come into force on February 1, 2012. The release of the Measures is of great significance to protecting legal rights and interests of the investors in the bond market and boosting the steady and sound development of the bond market in the long run. Upon a recent interview, an official of the relevant department of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) elaborated on the significance of the release of the Measures, the main contents of the Measures and others in the interview. Q: Could you tell us the backdrop and significance of the release of the Measures? A: With its rapid growth in recent years, the SSE bond market has seen an expanded size, with 630 kinds of bonds listed. The annual bond trading volume has been sharply increased as well. In the next few years, the SSE will still attach much importance to the development of the bond market by providing good bond financing services for the development of small and medium-sized businesses and the real economy, offering more fixed income products and hedging instruments to investors as well as creating more opportunities and platforms to increase the public’s property income according to the guideline of "developing the capital market and expanding the proportion of direct financing" issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. Currently, it turns out that the risk of the bond trading is lower than that of the stock trading. Nevertheless, objectively, there are some risks in the bond trading due to the specialty of the bond trading and its vulnerability to the changes in the international financial market. Upon careful study and prudent consideration, the SSE holds that the Measures should be formulated to protect the legal rights and interests of the investors and boost the sound development of the bond market. Q: What’s the core content of the Measures? The core content of the Measures is to build a system of bond-investor-based classified management and trading. The SSE bond market will divide investors into professional investors and ordinary ones according to their product familiarity levels and risk tolerance abilities. The former can trade a wider range of bonds, especially the hi-risk bond varieties, while the latter could only trade those with low risks, namely, the spot trading of treasury bonds, local government bonds, hi-credit corporate bonds and enterprise bonds and the collateralized-repo-based securities lending. An investor needs to foster strong risk identification ability, risk management ability and risk tolerance ability to trade the low-credit corporate bonds and enterprise bonds and the targetedly issued bonds as well as conduct the collateralized-repo-based margin trading. So, these products are suitable for professional investors. All this aims to protect the ordinary investors’ legal rights and interest. Q: How do you organize to implement the Measures? A: The client management is one of the key duties of the SSE member companies. So, the implementation of the Measures mainly depends on the member companies. The SSE’s major duty is to formulate the measures on the investor suitability management in the bond market and relevant business guidelines, while all the member companies ought to work out specific implementation schemes and relevant working systems, organize their clients to participate in knowledge tests, assess qualifications of their clients, fix the categories of investors and conduct the front control of the investors’ transactions. Q: Could you tell us the SSE’s supporting regulatory measures on strict implementation of the Measures? The SSE member companies should promptly file the approved professional investors’ accounts with the SSE for real-time monitoring and check. If the ordinary investors trade any hi-risk bonds, the SSE will ensure the implementation of the Measures by urging its member companies to handle the issue in time.

SSE Bond Information Website Unveiled
23 Dec 2011
The SSE Bond Information Website (http://bond.sse.com.cn) was unveiled for a trial run on December 23, 2011 to improve the service and strengthen the publicity. The website’s launch marked that a regular and systematical Internet-based service and publicity for the bond market of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) came into being. The website has set up ten level-1 columns including ‘News & Announcement’, ‘Quote Information’, ‘Bond Curve’, ‘Business Handling’, ‘Education & Training’, ‘Research & Analysis’ and others on its homepage, 30 level-2 columns and a simulated calculator for the accrued interest of bond varieties listed on the SSE. The ‘Quote Information’ column integrates the information about the bond quotes and transactions from the SSE fixed income platform, the SSE bidding-based matching system and the SSE block trading system. The ‘Bond Curve’ column covers the curves of bond indices, yield rates and fixing repo rates. The ‘Research & Analysis’ column accumulates market research reports and experts’ viewpoints. The ‘Business Handling’ column includes a lot of businesses such as the issuance and underwriting of corporate bonds on the SSE and the supplementation of the dealers of the SSE fixed income platform. According to an SSE official, the SSE will contribute to driving the development of China’s bond market by enriching the website’s contents and functions, exploring the information search, the online transfer of the targetedly issued bonds and other businesses and intensifying the linkage mechanism between market institutions and the website.

SSE Holiday Schedule for 2012
23 Dec 2011
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the holiday schedule for 2012 according to the "Notice of Arrangements concerning Market Closing and Public Holidays in 2012" of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (No. [2011] 103 by CSRC): 1. Arrangements of market closure (1) New Year's Day: The Exchange will close from January 1 (Sunday) to January 3, 2012 (Tuesday) and open for trading on January 4, 2012 (Wednesday). It will also close on the weekend on December 31, 2011 (Saturday). (2) Spring Festival: The Exchange will close from January 22 (Sunday) to January 28, 2012 (Saturday) and open for trading on January 30, 2012 (Monday). It will also close on the weekends on January 21 (Saturday), and January 29, 2012 (Sunday). (3) Tomb Sweeping Day: The Exchange will close from April 2 (Monday) to April 4, 2012 (Wednesday) and open for trading on April 5, 2012 (Thursday). It will also close on the weekends on March 31 (Saturday) and April 1, 2012 (Sunday). (4) Labor Day: The Exchange will close from April 29 (Sunday) to May 1, 2012 (Tuesday) and open for trading on May 2, 2012 (Wednesday). It will also close on the weekend on April 28, 2012 (Saturday). (5) Dragon Boat Festival: The Exchange will close from June 22 (Friday) to June 24, 2012 (Sunday) and open for trading on June 25, 2012 (Monday). (6) Mid-Autumn Festival and National Day: The Exchange will close from September 30 (Sunday) to October 7, 2012 (Sunday) and open for trading on October 8, 2012 (Monday). It will also close on the weekend on September 29, 2012 (Saturday). 2. Relevant clearing issues will be carried out according to the arrangements of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. 3. Issues for testing in Spring Festival and National Day are subject to further notice. Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange December 23, 2011

10th China Corporate Governance Forum Unveiled in Shanghai
20 Dec 2011
Sponsored by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) under the joint auspices of the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC) of the State Council and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), the 10th China Corporate Governance Forum was held in Shanghai yesterday to mark the 21st founding anniversary of the SSE. SSE President Zhang Yujun presided over the opening ceremony of the forum and the awarding ceremony of Special Awards for Corporate Governance of Listed Companies. The officials present at the forum conferred the 2011 Award of Board of Directors, the 2011 Award of Information Disclosure and the Award of Typical Merger and Acquisition Case on the prize-winning listed companies. Guo Shuqing, Party Chief and Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), Han Zheng, Deputy Party Chief and Mayor of Shanghai, and Geng Liang, SSE Governor delivered speeches at the forum. Among those attending the forum were Tu Guangshao, Member of the Standing Committee of the CPC Shanghai Committee and Deputy Mayor of Shanghai, Zhou Daojiong, Ex-chairman of the CSRC, Fan Fuchun, Ex-vice-chairman of the CSRC, Chen Dongzheng, Governor of the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), Jiang Yang, Assistant to Chairman of the CSRC, Song Liping, SZSE President, and Tao Ruizhi, Deputy Director of the SASAC Property Right Administration. Besides, SSE Vice President Liu Shian and SSE Chief Accountant Zhou Qinye respectively presided over the sub-forums. More than 250 representatives from the CSRC, the SASAC, the listed companies as well as the institutional investors and intermediaries at home and aboard attended the forum. Concerning the corporate governance, Guo Shuqing discussed five points as follows: 1. China's economic prospect depends on the companies' quality; 2. the corporate governance could be better as there is no best; 3. historical achievements have been achieved in the corporate governance of China's enterprises; 4. it is a very hard task to perfect the corporate governance of listed companies; 5. efforts should be made to improve the governance of securities, fund and futures companies. After extending warm congratulations on the forum on behalf of the Shanghai Government, Han Zheng said that the Shanghai Government would coordinate with the SSE to strive for new progress and breakthrough by optimizing the environment for the enterprises' development, boost the growth of the capital market, accelerate the building of Shanghai into an international economic, financial, trade and shipping center. The forum reviewed the fruits achieved by the Shanghai securities market in recent years. The SSE blue-chip market has seen a sound growth upon its development in the past 20 years, while the blue-chip companies have increased the rewards for their shareholders year by year. All this has greatly improved the structure of the listed companies on the SSE and lifted the investment value of the market. Furthermore, the SSE has consistently urged the listed companies to improve their corporate governance, which has laid a solid foundation for the construction of the blue-chip market and the development of the multi-level capital market. According to sources, the SSE will further drive the construction of the blue-chip market in the following two aspects: 1. more pains will be taken to support the listing of medium-sized and large excellent firms on the SSE by facilitating shares issuance and listing of the key businesses in finance, energy, military equipment, culture and Internet industries; 2. the merger and acquisition of listed companies will be encouraged continuously through improvement of the quality and efficiency of merger and acquisition to foster more high-quality and powerful listed companies. In the past decade, the SSE has always attached great importance to corporate governance and made great efforts in stimulating the listed companies to improve their corporate governance. As early as in the 1990s, the SSE started its research on corporate governance. The "Report on China's Corporate Governance" has been compiled and published on an annual basis since 2003. The guidance for corporate governance, the first of its kind in China, was drafted, with other listing and business rules continuously amended to tighten the requirements for governance structure of listed companies, standardize the operation of listed companies and strengthen the supervision over information disclosure. In recent years, the SSE also set up the Corporate Governance Sector, issued the SSE Guideline on Environmental Information Disclosure by Listed Companies and urged the listed companies to fulfill their social responsibilities. Since 2009, the Award of Board of Directors, the Award of Information Disclosure, the Award of Typical Merger and Acquisition Case, the Award of Excellent Independent Directors and other special awards have been given on an annual basis to commend the elites in the corporate governance of listed companies on the SSE and publicize the advanced experiences, recommended instances and best practice, in a bid to continuously better the corporate governance of listed companies. The SSE's efforts have contributed a lot to promoting the corporate governance of China's listed companies. At the forum, the representatives also compared notes on these two topics including the "overall listing, connected transactions and horizontal competition" and the "narrative information disclosure and corporate transparency".

SSE 300 Index, SSE 100 Index and SSE 100 Equal Weight Index To Be launched
15 Dec 2011
To further enhance the SSE index family as well as to provide new analysis tools and underlying instruments for investors, Shanghai Stock Exchange and China Securities Index Co., Ltd announced that the SSE 300 Index, SSE 100 Index and SSE 100 Equal Weight Index would be launched on Jan 10, 2012. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd Dec 15, 2011 [SSE 300 Index Methodology]     [SSE 100 Index Methodology]     [SSE 100 Equal Weight Index Methodology]     [Constituents List] 

SSE Fundamental Weighted Indices To Be Launched
14 Dec 2011
To further enhance the SSE index family as well as to provide new analysis tool and underlying instrument for investors, Shanghai Stock Exchange and China Securities Index Co Ltd announced that the SSE Fundamental Weighted Indices would be launched on Jan 9, 2012. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. Dec 14, 2011 [SSE Fundamental Weighted Indices Methodology]     [Constituents List]

SSE Volatility Weighted Indices to Be Launched
14 Dec 2011
To further enhance the SSE index family as well as to provide new analysis tool and underlying instrument for investors, Shanghai Stock Exchange and China Securities Index Co Ltd announced that the SSE Volatility Weighted Indices would be launched on Jan 9, 2012. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. Dec 14, 2011 [SSE Volatility Weighted Indices Methodology]     [Constituents List]

SSE Volatility Weighted Indices to Be Launched
12 Dec 2011
To further enhance the SSE index family as well as to provide new analysis tool and underlying instrument for investors, Shanghai Stock Exchange and China Securities Index Co Ltd announced that the SSE Volatility Weighted Indices would be launched on Jan 9, 2012. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. Dec 14, 2011 [SSE Volatility Weighted Indices Methodology]     [Constituents List]

Adjustment List for SSE 180, SSE 50, SSE 380 and Other SSE Indices
12 Dec 2011
Adjustment List for SSE 180, SSE 50, SSE 380 and Other SSE Indices   The following adjustment will be effective on the first trading day in 2012. Adjustment list for SSE 180 Index： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 600037 Beijing Gehua CATV Network Co.,Ltd. 600125 China Railway Tielong Container Logistics Co.,Ltd 600096 Yunnan Yuntianhua Co.,Ltd. 600276 Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine Co.,Ltd. 600173 Wolong Real Estate Group Co.,Ltd. 600311 Gansu Ronghua Industry Group Co.,Ltd. 600175 Meidu Holding Co.,Ltd. 600316 Jiangxi Hdngdu Aviation Industry Co.,Ltd. 600183 Guangdong Shengyi Sci.Tech Co.,Ltd. 600366 Ningbo Yunsheng Co.,Ltd. 600220 Jiangsu Sunshine Co.,Ltd. 600498 Fiberhome Telecommunication Technologies Co.,Ltd. 600246 Beijing Vantone Real Estate Co.,Ltd 600509 Xinjiang Tianfu Thermoelectric Co.,Ltd. 600320 Shanghai Zhenhua Heavy Industries Co.,Ltd 600614 Shanghai Dingli Technology Development (Group) Co.,Ltd 600508 Shanghai Datun Energy Resources Co.,Ltd. 600770 Jiangsu Zongyi Co.,Ltd. 600528 China Railway Erju Co.,Ltd. 600809 Shanxi Xinghuacun Fen Wine Factory Co.,Ltd 600584 Jiangsu Changjiang Electronics Technology Co.,Ltd. 600816 Anxin Trust & Investment Co.,Ltd 600635 Shanghai Dazhong Public Utilities(Group)Co.,Ltd 600839 Sichuan Changhong Electric Co.,Ltd. 600638 Shanghai New Huang Pu Real Estate Co.,Ltd. 600873 Meihua Holdings Group Co.,Ltd 600748 Shanghai Industrial Development Co.,Ltd. 600893 Xi'An Aero-Engine Plc 600872 Jonjee Hi-Tech Industrial and Commercial Holding Co.,Ltd. 601002 Gem-Year Industrial Co.,Ltd. 600997 Kailuan Energy Chemical Co.,Ltd. 601233 Tongkun Group Co.,Ltd. 601588 Beijing North Star Company Limited 601311 Camel Group Co.,Ltd. 601727 Shanghai Electric Group Company Limited 601992 BBMG Corporation Adjustment list for SSE 50 Index： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 601390 China Railway Group Limited 600010 Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Union Co.,Ltd. 601688 Huatai Securities Co.,Ltd. 600058 Minmetals Development Co.,Ltd. 601919 China COSCO Holdings Company Limited 600068 China Gezhouba Group Company Limited 601939 China Construction Bank Corporation 601299 China CNR Corporation Limited Adjustment list for SSE 380 Index： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 600125 China Railway Tielong Container Logistics Co.,Ltd 600081 Dongfeng Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd. 600168 Wuhan Sanzhen Industry Holding Co.,Ltd 600096 Yunnan Yuntianhua Co.,Ltd. 600178 Harbin Dongan Auto Engine Co.,Ltd. 600131 Sichuan Minjiang Hydropower Co.,Ltd 600202 Harbin Air Conditioning Co.,Ltd. 600152 Ningbo Veken Elite Group Co.,Ltd 600230 Cangzhou Dahua Co.,Ltd 600173 Wolong Real Estate Group Co.,Ltd. 600253 Henan Topfond Pharmaceutical Co.,Ltd. 600175 Meidu Holding Co.,Ltd. 600276 Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine Co.,Ltd. 600183 Guangdong Shengyi Sci.Tech Co.,Ltd. 600288 Daheng New Epoch Technology, Inc. 600193 Shanghai Prosolar Resources Development Co.,Ltd 600293 Hubei Sanxia New Building Materials Co.,Ltd. 600257 Dahu Aquaculture Co.,Ltd. 600316 Jiangxi Hdngdu Aviation Industry Co.,Ltd. 600277 Inner Mongolia Yili Energy Company Limited 600317 Yingkou Port Liability Co.,Ltd 600278 Orient International Enterprise, Ltd. 600359 Xinjiang Talimu Agriculture Development Co.,Ltd. 600367 Guizhou Redstar Developing Co.,Ltd. 600366 Ningbo Yunsheng Co.,Ltd. 600373 Chinese Universe Publishing and Media Co.,Ltd. 600391 Sichuan Chengfa Aero Science & Technology Co.,Ltd 600433 Guangdong Guanhao High-Tech Co.,Ltd 600400 Jiangsu Hongdou Industry Co.,Ltd 600508 Shanghai Datun Energy Resources Co.,Ltd. 600405 Beijing Dynamic Power Co., Ltd 600528 China Railway Erju Co.,Ltd. 600498 Fiberhome Telecommunication Technologies Co.,Ltd. 600584 Jiangsu Changjiang Electronics Technology Co.,Ltd. 600509 Xinjiang Tianfu Thermoelectric Co.,Ltd. 600619 Shanghai Highly (Group) Co., Ltd. 600533 Nanjing Chixia Development Co., Ltd. 600648 Shanghai Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone Development Co.,Ltd 600537 Haitong Food Group Co.,Ltd. 600658 Beijing Electronic Zone Investment and Development Co., Ltd 600551 Time Publishing and Media Co., Ltd. 600666 Southwest Pharmaceutical Co.,Ltd. 600565 Chongqing Dima Industry Co.,Ltd 600748 Shanghai Industrial Development Co.,Ltd. 600573 Fujian Yanjing Huiquan Brewery Co.,Ltd 600776 Eastern Communications Co.,Ltd. 600647 Shanghai Tongda Venture Capital Co., Ltd. 600780 Top Energy Company Ltd.Shanxi 600682 Nanjing Xinjiekou Department Store Co.,Ltd. 600783 Luxin Venture Capital Group Co.,Ltd. 600713 Nanjing Pharmaceutical Company Limited 600802 Fujian Cement Inc. 600770 Jiangsu Zongyi Co.,Ltd. 600841 Shanghai Diesel Engine Co.,Ltd 600809 Shanxi Xinghuacun Fen Wine Factory Co.,Ltd 600872 Jonjee Hi-Tech Industrial and Commercial Holding Co.,Ltd. 600834 Shanghai Shentong Metro Co.,Ltd 600997 Kailuan Energy Chemical Co.,Ltd. 600839 Sichuan Changhong Electric Co.,Ltd. 601010 Wenfeng Great World Chain Development Corporation 600861 Beijing Urban-Rural Trade Centre Co.,Ltd. 601113 Yiwu Huading Nylon Co.,Ltd. 600873 Meihua Holdings Group Co.,Ltd 601208 Sichuan Em Technology Co.,Ltd. 600893 Xi'An Aero-Engine Plc 601216 Inner Mongolia Junzheng Energy & Chemical Industry Co.,Ltd. 600896 China Shipping Haisheng Co.,Ltd. 601218 Jiangsu Jixin Wind Energy Technology Co., Ltd. 600985 Anhui Leimingkehua Co., Ltd. 601258 Power Diversity Automobile Trade Co.,Ltd 600987 Zhejiang Hangmin Co.,Ltd 601566 Joeone Co.,Ltd. 601188 Heilongjiang Transport Development Co., Ltd 601567 Ningbo Sanxing Electric Co., Ltd. 601700 Changshu Fengfan Power Equipment Co.,Ltd. 601727 Shanghai Electric Group Company Limited Adjustment list for SSE Dividend Index： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 600006 Dongfeng Automobile Co.,Ltd 600183 Guangdong Shengyi Sci.Tech Co.,Ltd. 600102 Laiwu Steel Corporation 600517 Shanghai Zhixin ElectricCo.,Ltd. 600126 Hangzhou Iron & Steel Co.,Ltd. 600660 Fuyao Glass Industry Group Co.,Ltd 600270 Sinotrans Air Transportation Development Co.,Ltd 600741 HUAYU Automotive Systems Company Limited 600348 Yang Quan Coal Industry (Group) Co., Ltd. 600895 Shanghai Zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park Development Co.,Ltd 600350 Shandong Expressway Company Limited 600999 China Merchants Securities Co., Ltd. 600548 Shenzhen Expressway Company Limited 601088 China Shenhua Energy Company Limited 600626 Shanghai Shenda Co.,Ltd. 601166 Industrial Bank Co.,Ltd. 600886 SDIC Huajing Power Holdings Co.,Ltd 601333 Guangshen Railway Company Limited 601328 Bank of Communications Co.,Ltd. 601628 China Life Insurance Company Limited   Appendix: Adjustment list for other SSE indices   Shanghai Stock Exchanges China Securities Index Co., LTD 2011.12.12

Boosting Capital Market by Improving Investors' Rationality
12 Dec 2011
The SSE will do its best to build online investors' school. To further deepen the education for investors and to strengthen the ranks of rational investors, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has joined hands with leading securities companies to make every effort in building the online investors' school this year. As a fruit of the first phase of the online school, 67 episodes of video programs of elementary and intermediate courses for small and medium-sized investors have recently been put online for the investors' self-study by free logging on to the SSE's website for investors' education (http://edu.sse.com.cn). Meanwhile, the program will be aired repeatedly in the brokerage houses across the country through the broadband broadcasting satellite system of Shanghai Stock Communication Co., Ltd. to achieve the sharing of educational resources for investors in the industry. In the future, the online school will also seek to work with the mainstream online media to provide convenience for more investors by airing online educational videos and courseware on relevant websites. According to the plan, composed of individual education center, institutional education center, examination and accreditation center, education promotion center and teaching and scientific research center, the SSE Online Investors' School is mainly designed for the individual investors and the personnel of the market institutions such as securities companies with the aim of constantly expanding the ranks of rational investors by providing systematic education and training for investors with the online teaching as the main form and mainly on the basis of the online platform for investors and the system of online training, examination and accreditation. Among them, the individual education is designed for the basic education on stock market and the education on access to relevant market businesses for individual investors; the institutional education is designed for institutional investors such as securities companies in the training in the access to relevant market businesses, the supportive training in the professional qualification and the training in new products and new businesses; the examinations and accreditation are organized for the examinations on relevant market access and the qualification accreditation for the investors; through the education promotion, the coverage and the influence of the investors' education will be enhanced by making long-term and systematic investors' educational plans and carrying out activities including "securities summer camp", "campus tour" and "community tour"; in the teaching and scientific research, online courses will be developed, text books and question banks will be compiled, the online resources will be maintained and updated, and the management of distance education, teacher training, subject research and the development of the information products for investors' education, etc. will be conducted. According to an SSE official, the SSE has always attached importance to investor education, giving full play to the advantage as an organizer, a manager and a front-line regulator of securities trading, integrating the investor education with the system construction, front-line supervision, market innovation, industry self-regulation and complaints handling according to the guideline of "the integration of the education, protection, supervision and service for investors", constantly deepening the "Six Ones" project for investor education and sparing no efforts in improving the investors' ability in self-protection, fostering the ranks of rational investors and promoting the sound and stable development of the capital market. The launching of the online school is one of the important initiatives for deepening the investor education by the SSE. According to the sources, the first phase online part of the online school includes the 2,000-minute elementary and intermediate video courses for individual investors, covering the basics of the stock market, the basics of stocks, basic knowledge of derivatives, introduction to laws and regulations on securities, investment analysis of funds and derivatives, industry analysis of listed companies, information disclosure of listed companies and refinancing of listed companies, etc., with the experts from 21 securities companies including CITIC Securities, Guosen Securities, GF Securities, Guotai Junan Securities, Shenyin & Wanguo Securities, China Galaxy Securities, Ping An Securities, and Central China Securities as lecturers. In the future, the SSE will continue to promote the construction of the online investors' school and launch the follow-up courses and other sections in batches, in the hope of further strengthening the SSE's role in investor education and better supporting the development of the capital market through the platform. On the one hand, the effective link-up of the education and training for the investors and the qualification accreditation will be explored on the basis of the training courses featuring abundant contents and distinctive levels. For individual investors, the different teaching materials and online courseware and question banks for elementary, intermediate and advanced levels will be provided and the corresponding one-, two- and three-star accreditation examinations will be organized to provide support for the securities companies' management in the investors' market access to relevant businesses; for institutional investors, in addition to access training, the auxiliary training for the qualification of the professional personnel, especially the training in new products and new rules and the training in career development, will also be provided to help improve the trainees' professional ability and foster and strengthen the ranks of the professional investors on the SSE. On the other hand, the integration of the investor education and the national education will be promoted with the orientation toward fostering potential qualified investors. In recent years, the institutions including the SSE and the people concerned have been calling for listing the investor education into the system of the national education. To this end, the SSE Online Investors' School will actively cooperate with schools and communities to popularize the knowledge in securities investment in the forms of students' summer camps, teacher training, mock trading, securities salon and securities exhibitions, in a bid to make contributions to promoting the national education in investment and wealth management and improving the public's capability in managing their wealth. On the occasion of the launching of the online investors' school, the renowned experts in the industry expressed their hopes and congratulations, giving high recognition to the initiative of the SSE. Director Yu Zhonghua of Everbright Securities Research Institute said, "The online school organized by the SSE features flexible forms, a wide range of trainees, high relevance, updated teaching materials, reasonable and compact layout and the explicit explanations." Chief Economist Yang Chengzhang of SWS Research Co., Ltd. said, "The establishment of the online school is in response to and meeting in a forward manner the market demands, and provides the investors with a long-term, systematic and professional study platform and opportunity." Presenting sincere hopes for the online school, the securities sector extends best wishes for a better future of the school to act as a bridgehead in investor education.

SSE Large-Cap Equal Weight Index To Be Renamed
07 Dec 2011
SSE and CSI today together announced that SSE Large-Cap Equal Weight Index will be renamed SSE 50 Equal Weight Index on Dec 22nd 2011. The shortened name will be changed into SSE 50 EWI. The index's Chinese full name as well as its Chinese shortened name will also be changed accordingly. The index methodology remains the same. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Dec 7th 2011

SSE to Build Integrity-oriented Legal System for Market
05 Dec 2011
The symposium on the integrity and legal system construction in the market was held yesterday in response to “December 4, the National Law Publicity Day”. The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held the symposium on the integrity and legal system construction in the market in response to the forthcoming 11th National Law Publicity Day. Relevant member companies, listed companies, fund companies, law firms, accounting firms and advisory bodies were invited to compare notes on their experiences in the integrity and legal system construction in the market. At the symposium, SSE Vice President Xu Ming summarized the overall situation and basic measures concerning the SSE’s boosting the integrity and legal system construction in the market by fulfilling its functions and taking its advantages in recent years. Xu pointed out that in a recent speech by Chairman Guo Shuqing of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) at the 9th Small and Medium Enterprise Financing Forum, Guo gave four directions for the capital market, namely, legalization, marketization, openness and internationalization. Besides, Guo took the integrity construction in the capital market as one of the 6 tasks to be greatly propelled. According to the deployment and requirements of the CSRC, the symposium was held to report the SSE’s work in the integrity and legal system construction in recent years and solicit the opinions of market participants and professional institutions on how to boost the integrity and legal system construction on the SSE and in the whole capital market. Xu summarized the situation of the SSE’s implementing the united deployment of the CSRC and cementing the integrity and legal system construction in the capital market in the following 4 aspects: firstly, the SSE business rule system has been continuously perfected so as to optimize the basic system compatible with the integrity environment in the market. In recent years, guided by the "Securities Law" and the "Company Law", the SSE has amended an array of business operation guidance documents according to the CSRC’s requirement of continuously boosting the integrity construction in the market. Thus, a business rule system, which includes basic business rules, detailed business rules, business guidance documents and business notices involving all the key fields such as securities issuance, listing and trading as well as member management, has been consummated on the whole, with all the effective business rules up to more than 250 documents. Secondly, the SSE’s frontline supervision function has been gradually intensified, in a bid to ensure an honest, standardized and orderly market. A hi-efficient frontline supervision could safeguard the sound market on the SSE. Over the past years, the SSE has built a trinity of listed companies, member companies and market surveillance and a frontline supervision structure characterized by the concerted supervision by Company Management Department, Membership Department and Market Surveillance Department and Legal Department by initiatively adapting itself to the change of the supervision situation in the all-floating era, adjusting the department structure, consistently strengthening the supervision resource allocation and ceaselessly innovating the regulation system. The SSE has arranged most personnel resources in its supervision work. Thirdly, the SSE’s self-regulatory management system has been improved unremittingly, with an aim of lifting the legal level of the frontline supervision. The SSE has concluded in its market practices over the past years that to enhance the level of the legal operation on the stock exchange is a fundamental task for building a sound market on the SSE. Remarkable achievements have been made by the SSE in the consummation of self-regulatory management rules, the optimization of self-regulatory management mechanism and the intensification of self-regulatory management. Fourthly, the law research and publicity have been conducted to build the integrity-oriented legal environment in the market. Especially in the law publicity work, the SSE has done it utmost to consolidate the law research and publicity as well as the investor education by giving full play to its role as a pivot tie in the capital market. Finally, Xu added that the market economy is not only a legal-system-based economy, but also an integrity-oriented economy. What’s more, the capital market highly depends on the integrity environment under the legal guidance. It is a long-term, fundamental and hard task to build a sound legal environment and a high-integrity market. For the future market development, the SSE will build an integrity-oriented legal system and improve the legal-system level to foster an integrity environment compatible with its market size, structure and status. Xu also hoped that all walks of life would continuously devote themselves to the market development on the SSE and give advices on the SSE’s integrity and legal system construction. At the symposium, all the representatives of member companies, listed companies, fund companies, law firms and accounting firms made speeches on how to punish lawbreaking and faith-breaking, advocate integrity-oriented legal administration and stick to compliance operation according to their businesses. Senior Partner Shen Guoquan of AllBright Law Offices held that the positioning of securities lawyer should be further specified. In addition, Partner Ma Jianping of Da Hua Certified Public Accountants held that the construction of integrity records should be taken as one of the appraisal standards of accounting firms as the integrity-oriented operation is a fundamental requirement for the CPA industry’s survival and growth.

Xu Calls for Further Improvement of Legal System of Corporate Bond Market
28 Nov 2011
At present, the phenomenon of favoring stocks over bonds prevails indeed in both the practical activities in the capital market and the "Securities Law", which is inconsistent with the rising status as the strategy of the capital market in the country to strive to develop the corporate bond market; therefore, how to improve or restructure the bond system in the "Securities Law" according to the inherent rules and basic characteristics of bonds has become an important subject of the law-governed securities sector, said Vice President Xu Ming of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) in his key-note speech at the 2nd "SSE Legal Forum" held in Beijing on November 26. According to Xu, from the perspective of promoting the resource allocation by way of financing, the issuance of bonds is a crucial channel for corporate financing, so the bond market plays a very important role in financing for the capital market and contributes a lot to the domestic capital market. Meanwhile, it is of great significance to develop the bond market for the capital market maximizing its effects. Firstly, it is conducive to balancing the financing model of the capital market and weakening the influence of bank loans on the corporate financing, thus reducing the risks of the bank loans. Secondly, it is good to expand the corporate financing channels, promote the improvement and development of the corporate governance institutions and change the unreasonable financing model dominated by equity financing. Thirdly, it not only facilitates to satisfy the needs of different investors with varied risks for effective investment portfolios, but also helps to ensure the effective state macro control and regulation and the healthy development of the national economy. In fact, in the evolution of the Chinese capital market, the bond market emerges earlier than the stock market but develops slower than the latter. In recent years, more and more importance is attached to the bond market, especially the corporate bond market, so the bond market has seen a growth. It rises into a strategy of the capital market in the country to expand the proportion of direct financing and greatly develop the corporate bond market. However, in the practice of the Chinese capital market, various participants have a better knowledge of stocks than bonds. As for the gap between the status quo for the development of the domestic bond market and the strategic orientation of expanding the proportion of direct financing, maximizing the effects of the capital market and meeting the internal market demand, Xu pointed out that it reflected three problems as follows: First of all, the inverted-pyramid structure of the capital market remains unchanged. Among the varieties of financing bonds in the mature capital market, a pyramid structure is formed for stocks, government loans and corporate bonds in order of scales while the inverted-pyramid structure with the stock market of the largest scale and the bond market the smallest in the country remains unchanged. For example, from 2008 to 2010, the financing scale for the stocks hit about RMB1,875 billion while that for the corporate bonds in the same period only accumulatively reached RMB153.4 billion, accounting for 8% of the stock financing. In contrast, the scales for the corporate bonds account for as high as 70% of the whole capital markets in the mature markets in Europe, the US and other countries. Moreover, the corporate bonds have a small proportion in the whole bond system. Over years of development, the varieties of the bonds have been expanded from the single government bonds to central bank bills, commercial bank financial bonds, enterprise bonds, corporate bonds, small-and-medium-sized-enterprise combined notes. However, generally speaking, the bond market tends to be undiversified, which is dominated by the state credit bonds, accounting for over 80% of the total in the market. That means that the corporate bonds actually have a small proportion. Besides, the corporate bonds are mainly issued by the central state-owned enterprises or excellent local enterprises with a few by small and medium-sized enterprises for direct financing. Furthermore, the role played by the SSE in self-discipline and regulation on the development of the corporate bond market is weak. As the self-disciplinary and regulatory institution, the SSE assumes the responsibilities of examining the listing of the corporate bonds, organizing and managing the bond trading and supervising the information disclosure conducted by the bond issuers. As a matter of fact, in recent years, the SSE has taken it urgent to greatly develop the bond market, so that the amounts of the bonds for custody, those of newly-listed bonds and those of bonds for trading by listing have been increased, and much progress has been made in the innovation of the bond products. All this indicates that the SSE should be able to give full play to its advantages and extend its influence in the development of the bond market. So, the "Securities Law" is expected to pave the way for the SSE in administrating the listing and trading of corporate bonds as well as regulating the innovation of traded bond varieties and their post-listing activities when being perfected in the formulation of the law of corporate bonds.

SSE Strives to Develop Bond Market for Real Economy
25 Nov 2011
The bonds' trading volume of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) is expected to hit RMB20 trillion this year. "In recent years, the SSE's bond market has made great strides but it still develops more slowly than the inter-bank market and fails to take full advantage of the SSE market in the support of the real economy, so our top priority will be given to the development of the bond market," said SSE President Zhang Yujun at the Shanghai Forum for the 2011 CCTV Chinese Economic Figures on November 24. He also predicted that the bonds' trading volume of the SSE would be very likely to hit RMB20 trillion this year. According to Zhang, the efforts strengthened on the development of the bond market are mainly attributed to the three reasons as follows. Firstly, it is aimed to better serve the restructuring of Chinese economy and the development of the real economy. Secondly, the development of the bond market, especially that of the corporate bond market, is conducive to preventing the systematic, regional and industrial risks in the country. Thirdly, developing the bond market, especially the corporate bond market, is contributive to enriching financial products and financial investment tools in the country as well as preserving and increasing the value of the citizens' wealth. He also said, "China's capital market has yielded good results. However, it has a shortage of basic financial tools for hedging, so there is a dramatic fluctuation in the stock trading. More attention should be paid to the development of the bond market." As for the inter-bank market and the SSE market, Zhang pointed out that in the previous year, the former made great achievements, contributing a lot to the economic growth, while the latter relatively developed at lower speed. However, the SSE's bond market has witnessed much progress in its development in recent years. Statistics shows that the bonds' trading volumes of the SSE in 2008, 2009 and 2010 as well as from January to November 2011 are RMB3 trillion, RMB4.5 trillion, RMB7.5 trillion, and RMB18 trillion, respectively. Upon prediction, the bonds' trading volumes of the SSE in the whole year of 2011 will be very likely to hit RMB20 trillion. "At present, we are amending the new three-year plan for the development of the bonds. We believe that the bonds' trading volume will be far higher than the stock trading volume after three years", said Zhang. To attain this goal, there is much work for the SSE to do. Besides, Zhang emphasized that China's bond market is urgent to boost the development of the exchanges' bond markets for better serving the real economy and functioning as a financial tool to prevent financial risks and diversify investors. "So, the SSE takes it as the top priority to develop the bond market every year," added Zhang. When mentioning the SSE's planning during the period of the "12th Five-year Plan", Zhang said that the mission of the SSE was to serve as a strong support to the development of the real economy, the tertiary sector and the emerging industries. The SSE is now at the stage of transformation, from relatively closed-oriented to open-oriented, targeting from the large enterprises to medium-sized and small ones, and emphasizing from stocks to bonds, with the strategy being changed from intensifying supervision to combining supervision with service. Meanwhile, the SSE is changing its focus on the services. For example, it is improving the services for the hi-tech enterprises and the real-economy enterprises, and striving to expand the financing channels and space for small and medium-sized enterprises as well as hi-tech enterprises and to provide investment products related to small and medium-sized enterprises, especially hi-tech businesses, for investors through the capital market.

Notice of Issuance of "SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Margin Trading, Securities Lending"
25 Nov 2011
All member units, Upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby issues the "SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Margin Trading and Securities Lending" (the Detailed Rules for short), which shall come into effect as of the issuance date. The member units who have conducted the margin trading and securities lending are required to adjust related businesses and technical systems according to the Detailed Rules. Besides, the "SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Pilot Margin Trading and Securities Lending" (Shang Zheng Chan Zi [2006] No. 1) issued by the SSE in 2006 shall be abolished at the same time.

SSE Consumer 50 Index To Be Launched
17 Nov 2011
To further enhance the SSE and CSI index family as well as to provide new analysis tool and underlying instrument for investors, SSE Consumer 50 Index will be launched on December 9th, 2011 by SSE and CSI. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. November 17th , 2011 [SSE Consumer 50 Index Methodology]     [Constituents List]

Adjustment List for SSE Wealth Mid-Small Index
17 Nov 2011
Adjustment List for SSE Wealth Mid-Small Index   The following adjustments will be effective on the first trading day of December, 2011.   Adjustment List for SSE Wealth Mid-Small Index: Addtion List Deletion List Code Name Code Name 600962 SDIC Zhonglu Fruit Juice  600231 Lingyuan Iron & Steel 600721 Xinjiang Baihuacun 600290 Huayi Electric Company 600807 Shandong Tyan Home 600270 Sinotrans Air Transportation Development 600212 Shandong Jiangquan Industry 600458 Zhuzhou Times New Material Technology 600780 Top Energy Company Shanxi 600710 Changlin Company 600773 Tibet Urban Development and Investment 600201 Inner Mongolia Jinyu Group 600857 HITShouchuang Technology 600405 Beijing Dynamic Power  600668 Zhejiang Jianfeng Group Co 600528 China Railway Erju 600051 Ningbo United Group 600736 Suzhou New District Hi-Tech Industrial 600483 Fujian Nanfang Textile 600173 Wolong Real Estate Group 600612 Lao Feng Xiang 600325 Huafa Industrial Zhuhai 600503 Deluxe Family  600815 Xiamen XGMA Machinery Company 600232 Zhejiang Golden Eagle 600400 Jiangsu Hongdou Industry 600873 Meihua Holdings Group 600133 Wuhan East Lake High Technology Group 600532 Shandong Huayang Technology 600970 Sinoma International Engineering 600881 Jilin Yatai (Group) Co 601002 Gem-Year Industrial 600227 Guizhou Chitianhua 601000 Tangshan Port Group 600811 Orient Group Incorporation 600990 Anhui Sun-Create Electronics  600259 Rising Nonferrous Metals Share  600763 Topchoice Medical Investment Inc 601678 Befar Group  600754 Shanghai Jin Jiang International Hotels Development 600139 Sichuan Western Resources Holding  600708 Shanghai Haibo 600481 Shuangliang Eco-Energy Systems 600571 Sunyard System Engineering 600734 Fujian Start Group 600565 Chongqing Dima Industry 600779 Sichuan Swellfun  600536 China National Software & Service Company 600725 Yunnan Yunwei Company 600526 Zhejiang Feida Enviromental Science & Technology 600491 Long Yuan Construction Group 600452 Chongqing Fuling Electric Power Industrial 600619 Shanghai Highly (Group)  600391 Sichuan Chengfa Aero Science & Technology 600838 Shanghai Join Buy 600336 Qingdao Aucma Company 600138 China CYTS Tours Holding 600279 Chongqing Gangjiu 600521 Zhejiang Huahai Pharmaceutical 600081 Dongfeng Electronic Technology     Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 2011.11.17    

SSE Launches All-round Cooperation with BM&F BOVESPA
28 Oct 2011
The 2nd China-Brazil Capital Markets Forum, jointly sponsored by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and BM&F BOVESPA, was held yesterday in Shanghai. SSE President Zhang Yujun said that the SSE would cement all-round cooperation in the capital markets of both sides with BM&F BOVESPA. Marcos Caramuru, Ambassador of the Consulate General of Brazil in Shanghai, and Edemir Pinto, CEO of BM&F BOVESPA attended the forum presided over by Zhou Qinye, SSE Chief Accountant. This February, Zhang Yujun, SSE Vice President Xu Ming and their entourage participated in the 1st China-Brazil Capital Markets Forum held in Brazil and signed a memorandum on closer cooperation with BM&F BOVESPA. Both sides fixed upon negotiation to hold the 2nd China-Brazil Capital Markets Forum in China in late October, 2011. At the forum held in Shanghai, both sides compared notes on the intensification of cooperation and exchanges in China-Brazil Capital Markets and the in-depth development of the exchanges in the two countries under the new backdrop. Besides, special sub-forums were held to respectively discuss the opportunities for and internationalization of enterprises in emerging markets, the challenges and opportunities of emerging markets for investment in multinational capital markets and the practices and experience in the investor education and protection. According to the cooperation memorandum signed previously, both sides reached an intent of cooperating in information, exchange, product development, trading platform construction, mutual personnel dispatch. Besides, both sides had common views on the periodical visit mechanism of senior managers as well as the exchanges in bond, fund, information, technology, investor education, academic science and personnel dispatch. Zhang Yujun said at the forum that with the rapid growth of Chinese economy in recent years, the two countries had seen a good trend of economic cooperation. In the South America, China had become the biggest source of capital flowed as FDI into Brazil. All this would require the domestic financial industry, especially all the participants in the capital market, to provide better financial services and supporting services for further opening-up of the Chinese economy. The cooperation between the SSE and BM&F BOVESPA should be cemented in response to the new trends of the economic growth and capital market development in the two countries. Finally, Zhang said that after the 1st China-Brazil Capital Markets Forum, more and more exchanges in the domestic capital market strengthened the cooperation with all the participants in the Brazilian capital market. For instance, a participant in the Brazilian capital market directly invested in the IPO of CITIC Securities in Hongkong. In the future, more domestic securities companies and fund management companies will provide financial services for Chinese enterprises' investment in foreign capital markets.

Adjustment List for SSE 380 Information Technology Index and other Index
12 Oct 2011
Adjustment List for SSE 380 Information Technology Index and other Index As Henan Dayou Energy’s industry classification will change due to the completion of major assets restructuring, the following adjustments will be effective on Oct 12, 2011.   Index Name Deletion List Addition List code name code name 380 Information 600403 Henan Dayou Energy - - 380 Energy - - 600403 Henan Dayou Energy   Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd.                                                  2011.10.12

SSE Asks Members to Do a Better Job in Risk Disclosure of Bond Market
10 Oct 2011
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) issued the "Notice of Doing a Better Job in Risk Disclosure of Bond Market" to its member units in response to the recent consecutive drops of the exchange's bond market. It was required in the notice that all the member companies should perfect the risk control of bond trading, cement the investor education and protection, as well as appraise and track the risks of clients' repo financing business and their bearing capabilities, in a bid to ensure a sound market. The bond market has seen consecutive drops with the great fluctuation of bond prices due to the recent macro economic policy. The SSE issued the notice to protect the legal rights and interests of investors, safeguard the market operation and ensure the sound development of the bond market. According to the notice, all the member companies should fulfill the duty of managing clients' trading, intensify the management on their business departments and consummate the risk control of bond trading; besides, they should strengthen the investor education and protection and protect the interests of investors by timely fostering their abilities of rational investment and risk prevention. In addition, the notice required that a healthy market should be ensured by appraising and tracking the risks of clients' repo financing business and their bearing capabilities and promptly solving the problems encountered by clients in their investment. According to the market insiders, the bond market boasting its function of sound investment has suffered the consecutive drops mainly because of the state's macro economic policy. All the member companies should further disclose the risks to investors, the clients handling the repo financing business in particular, and guide clients to conduct rational investment as well. Investors should pay full attention to the effects exerted by the macro economic policy on the bond market, appraise all the risks according to their conditions and intensify the awareness of risk prevention.

SSE to Approve Collateralized Repo of Convertible Bonds
30 Sep 2011
It is learnt that the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will approve the collateralized repo of convertible bonds to boost the development of the bonds market and better serve the bond investors. According to relevant personnel of the SSE, the treasury bonds, enterprise bonds and corporate bonds could go through the collateralized repo on the SSE, while the convertible bonds could only go through the spot trading without the financing function. Upon the in-depth study, the SSE and the China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. plan to take the highly-rated convertible bonds as the pledged bonds of the collateralized repo in the principles of collateralized repo standard bonds, in a bid to propel the sound development of the convertible bonds market. So far, a consensus on relevant issues has been reached by both sides, which will approve the collateralized repo of convertible bonds if the technical preparations and the development work are completed. Market insiders hold that this move will be conducive to the liquidity improvement and continuous development of the convertible bonds market.

Notice of Relevant Trading Issues on First Trading Day of Greattown's Listing Resumption
30 Sep 2011
All member units, Listing of Greattown Holdings Ltd. (shortened to Greattown. Its former name was Shanghai Worldbest Company Limited, with the short descriptions of "ST Worldbest" and "ST Worldbest B" as well as the stock codes of 600094 and 900940 for A and B shares, respectively) will be resumed for stock trading on October 11, 2011. According to relevant regulations in the "Trading Rules of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE)", it hereby notifies relevant trading issues on the first trading day of Greattown's listing resumption as follows: 1. There will be no trading limit on the first trading day of the listing resumption of ST Worldbest (600094) and ST Worldbest B (900940); 2. On the first trading day of the listing resumption of ST Worldbest (600094) and ST Worldbest B (900940), the previous closing price to be showed in the real time market quote is an opening reference price, which will be disclosed by Greattown and Ping An Securities Co., Ltd. (Ping An Securities) to the market upon calculation; 3. Considering that the share capital shrink and the equity transfer were conducted during the period of the listing suspension of relevant shares, all the member units are required to post up the announcements made by Greattown and Ping An Securities in conspicuous places at all business sites, in a bid to caution investors of risks in the market. Shanghai Stock Exchange September 29, 2011

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2011 National Day
23 Sep 2011
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the 2011 National Day according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2011" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2010] No. 30) as follows: 1. The SSE will close from October 1 (Saturday) to October 7 (Friday), 2011 and open for trading on October 10 (Monday), 2011. It will also close on the weekends on October 8 (Saturday) and October 9 (Sunday), 2011. 2. To ensure the normal trading after the holiday, the SSE will provide linkage testing environment of trading system from 09:30 to 12:00 on October 9 (Sunday), 2011. 3. Relevant clearing issues will be carried out according to the arrangements of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange September 23, 2011

SSE President: Indexation Investment Industry Needs More Efforts
20 Sep 2011
"It is imperative to further boost the indexation investment at the proper time. We should consistently propel the indices and indexation investment," said President Zhang Yujun of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) in his speech at the 5th Indices and Indexation Investment Forum held yesterday. He also added that the SSE would spare no efforts, together with the funds industry, to plan the long-term business development of passive investment. Zhang stressed several reasons for boosting the indexation investment. Firstly, the Chinese indexation investment industry has seen great development and outstanding achievements in less than 7 years. The previous practices have proved the great potential of the indexation investment industry in China. Secondly, the Chinese capital market has developed into the 2nd largest one in the world after its 20-year rapid growth, which has made a solid foundation for fueling the indexation investment industry. Thirdly, the indices and indexation investment in China is of great potential and has ample space as the Chinese economy has still been on a sound track. Fourthly, the scale and population of the current indexation investment industry in China are tiny in light of the whole market scale, the whole fund scale and the total investors. In 2011, the ETFs' scale is not more than RMB80 billion, while the market capitalization is RMB26 trillion. By reference to the western markets, the trading volume of the ETFs listed on the SSE is a small part of the total trading volume. In the past 5 years, the daily average trading volume on the SSE exceeded RMB100 billion, but the daily average trading volume of ETFs was only RMB2 billion, or 2% of the former. Nevertheless, the counterparts in the western markets are more than 10%. There is still a large room for development. So, Zhang held that pains should be taken to boost the indices and indexation investment, especially the ETFs. Firstly, efforts should be made to enhance the development and input of the indices and indexation investment. Currently, the industry is short of professionals and investors. Nevertheless, in light of the promising industry, we should invest more in labors and resources. "The whole industry should study, publicize and promote the passive investment or the indexation investment in a deeper and more comprehensive way by investing more in training talents, intensifying the publicity and establishing the systems of business and risk control for the indexation investment industry." Secondly, we should spare no efforts to perfect the development and compilation of indices on the basis of the market demand. In recent years, China Securities Index Co., Ltd. has done so much to contribute to the formation of the Chinese index system. Besides, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange as well as other socialized index and information institutions have done a lot for the index compilation. However, to explore the market-demand-oriented index system is still a key task. Zhang said that there were some flaws in the indices complied previously due to the former market circumstances and historical conditions. With the rapid growth of the Chinese securities market, the previous indices should be modified. The development of the industry and the Chinese economy will definitely call for new indices. So, we should consummate the development and compilation of indices. Thirdly, the asset management industry should solicit investors and further the marketing, promotion and publicity of the indexation investment by focusing on training investors and clients. Zhang held that like those in any emerging market, the Chinese investors are over-confident: it is a concept in the behavioral finance theory, namely, they are liable to invest blindly. Thus, we need to intensify the publicity and marketing to clients, search clients as well as cultivate and educate investors and further the publicity to investors. Fourthly, importance should be attached to the construction of the infrastructure and risk control of passive investment. The passive investment industry will not be on a sound track unless we establish the risk control system and contribute to the infrastructure and the basic business process. That is why the China Securities Regulatory Commission puts high importance to the risk control. Also, it is expected that the funds industry continues to cement the infrastructure and risk control of the passive investment, especially the fostering of basic talents.

SSE 380 Style Indices, SSE Health Care Theme Index, SSE Agriculture Theme Index to be launched
19 Sep 2011
To further enhance the SSE and CSI index family as well as to provide new analysis tool and underlying instrument for investors, SSE 380 Style Indices 、SSE Health Care Theme Index and SSE Agriculture Theme Index and are to be launched on October 18th，2011 by SSE and CSI. [SSE 380 Style Indices Methodology]

Listed Companies' 2011 Semi-Annual Reports Summary
05 Sep 2011
As of August 31, 2011, all the 922 listed companies on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) had completed the disclosure of 2011 semi-annual reports. Among them, 3 new listed companies disclosed semi-annual financial materials in their listing announcements. In the first half of 2011, the SSE-listed companies together gained RMB8,255,178 million operating revenue, RMB853,708 million net profit belonging to shareholders of parent companies and RMB0.295 earning per share, up 26.4%, 22.7% and 11.8%, respectively, compared with the same period of last year. Besides, they realized return on net assets of 8.6% and RMB0.2867 basic earning per share excluding extraordinary profit and loss, with the year-on-year increases of 0% and 12.2%, respectively. A total of 806 listed companies made profits while 116, decreased by 4 compared with the 1st half of 2010, suffered losses. By the end of June 2011, all the SSE-listed companies' net assets had been about RMB9,978,550 million, jumped by 22.8% from the same period of last year. The net asset value per share had been RMB3.4502, with a year-on-year increase of 11.9%. In the 1st half of 2011, the net cash flow from operating activities of all the SSE-listed companies was RMB1,009,304 million in total, with a year-on-year decrease of 38.9%. The net cash flow from operating activities per share was RMB0.3488, with a year-on-year decline of 44.3%. More than 50% of the listed companies, especially those in the banking, securities, petroleum and petrochemical, and manufacturing industries, saw a year-on-year drop in their net cash flows from operating activities. All the listed securities companies profited in spite of the slide of their net incomes from handling and commission charges. In the 1st half of 2011, a total of RMB523.61 billion net profits owned by shareholders of parent companies, or 61.3% of the total of all the SSE-listed companies, were realized by the top 10 profit-gaining companies on the SSE, including Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited, China Construction Bank Corporation, Agricultural Bank of China, Bank of China Limited, Petrochina Company Limited, China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation, Bank of Communications Co., Ltd., China Shenhua Energy Company Limited, China Merchants Bank Co., Limited and China CITIC Bank Corporation Limited. The business incomes and net profits owned by shareholders of parent companies of the companies in the SSE 50 Index totaled RMB5,023,201 million and RMB624,136 million, accounting for 60.9% and 73.1% of the total of all the listed companies, respectively. Most industries realized performance increases to different extents in the first 6 months of 2011. The industries contributing most to the total profit of all the industries remained to be the financial insurance and mining industries, whose net profits accounted for 58.8% and 15.7% of the total of all the listed companies, respectively.

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2011 Mid-Autumn Festival
02 Sep 2011
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the 2011 Mid-Autumn Festival according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2011" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2010] No. 30). It will close from September 10 (Saturday) to September 12 (Monday), 2011 and open for trading on September 13 (Tuesday), 2011. Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange September 2, 2011

SSE Deploys Semi-annual Corporate Bonds Report Disclosure
11 Aug 2011
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) issued today the "Notice of Doing a Better Job for Disclosing 2011 Semi-annual Corporate Bonds Reports by Issuers" to corporate bonds issuers and their sponsors. It is required in the notice that concerning all the corporate bonds listed on the SSE before June 30, 2011, the disclosure of their semi-annual reports should be completed before August 31, 2011. According to the notice, any issuer who fails to disclose a semi-annual report of corporate bonds before August 31, 2011 should submit a written explanation to the SSE before August 15 and announce the reasons for disclosure failure and the deadline for the disclosure. All the issuers should compile, file and disclose the semi-annual report in line with Article 5.2 in the "Corporate Bonds Listing Rules". A semi-annual report should cover the issuer's profile and financial condition in the first half of 2011, the remarks on any breach of the payment of principal and interest of the issued bonds and any risk of failing to repay as scheduled in the future, the remarks on tracking rating of bonds (if any), the significant lawsuits (or the possible ones) that affect the timely bonds repayment and the changes of issued bonds.

Adjustment List for SSE 380 Index and Other Indices
05 Aug 2011
Adjustment List for SSE 380 Index and Other Indices   Shanghai Bailian Group is to be delisted due to taken-over by Shanghai Friendship Group. The following adjustments will be effective on the delisting day. For more information of other SSE indices changes, please refer to SSE's official website ( www.sse.com.cn ) and CSI's official website ( www.csindex.com.cn ). Index Name Deletion List Addition List code name code name SSE 380 600631 Shanghai Bailian Group 600857 HIT. Shouchuang SSE SMALL CAP 600631 Shanghai Bailian Group 600827 Shanghai Friendship Group SSE MID&SMALL CAP 600631 Shanghai Bailian Group 600827 Shanghai Friendship Group SSE TOTAL MARKET 600631 Shanghai Bailian Group 600827 Shanghai Friendship Group SSE Non-Cyclical 600631 Shanghai Bailian Group 600827 Shanghai Friendship Group SSE Industry Top 600631 Shanghai Bailian Group 600827 Shanghai Friendship Group SSE Consumer 80 600631 Shanghai Bailian Group 600827 Shanghai Friendship Group   Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., LTD                                                  2011.8.5  

Adjustment List for SSE 380 Index and Other Indices
05 Aug 2011
Adjustment List for SSE 380 Index and Other Indices   Shanghai Bailian Group is to be delisted due to taken-over by Shanghai Friendship Group. The following adjustments will be effective on the delisting day. For more information of other SSE indices changes, please refer to SSE's official website ( www.sse.com.cn ) and CSI's official website ( www.csindex.com.cn ). Index Name Deletion List Addition List code name code name SSE 380 600631 Shanghai Bailian Group 600857 HIT. Shouchuang SSE SMALL CAP 600631 Shanghai Bailian Group 600827 Shanghai Friendship Group SSE MID&SMALL CAP 600631 Shanghai Bailian Group 600827 Shanghai Friendship Group SSE TOTAL MARKET 600631 Shanghai Bailian Group 600827 Shanghai Friendship Group SSE Non-Cyclical 600631 Shanghai Bailian Group 600827 Shanghai Friendship Group SSE Industry Top 600631 Shanghai Bailian Group 600827 Shanghai Friendship Group SSE Consumer 80 600631 Shanghai Bailian Group 600827 Shanghai Friendship Group   Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., LTD                                                  2011.8.5  

SSE Sustainable development industry Index, CSI Commodity Equity Index to be lauched
29 Jul 2011
To further enhance the SSE and CSI index family as well as to provide new analysis tool and underlying instrument for investors, SSE Sustainable development industry Index and CSI Commodity Equity Index are to be launched on Aug 22 2011 by SSE and CSI. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. Jul 29th , 2011

SSE Sustainable development industry Index, CSI Commodity Equity Index to be lauched
29 Jul 2011
To further enhance the SSE and CSI index family as well as to provide new analysis tool and underlying instrument for investors, SSE Sustainable development industry Index and CSI Commodity Equity Index are to be launched on Aug 22 2011 by SSE and CSI. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. Jul 29th , 2011

SSE Holds ETF Investment Training Seminar
27 Jul 2011
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) invited 100-plus people from 20 large securities companies' business departments as well as fund companies, software tool companies and EFT investors in Northeast China to Dalian for the special ETF business training and exchange on July 26. The SSE has seen a dramatic increase in the number of ETFs over the past years, with 20 ETFs listed so far. The training aims to assist the staffs of securities companies, especially the front-line investment counselors at business departments, in grasping relevant ETF expertise and trading strategies and lifting the marketing and service levels. The experts of the SSE, the sponsor of the training, as well as those from Huatai-Pinebridge Fund, Guotai Junan Securities and other co-organizers elaborated on the ETF business rules, the operation process, the trading strategies, the software tools, etc. to the heads and backbones of brokerage divisions and persons-in-charge and investment counselors of key business departments under the securities companies. Besides, they made exchanges on the market services. The training, popular with all the securities companies, not only facilitates the companies' staffs' further understanding of the unique advantages and rich application modes of ETF as a tool, but also provides a platform for the front-line sales and service staffs and fund managers to hold in-depth discussions with the investment experts. The SSE said that it would continuously reinforce the market services, organize the talks among market participants as well as improve relevant institutions' capabilities in market service and investor education.

SSE 380 Equal Weight Index To Be Launched
21 Jul 2011
To further enhance the SSE index family as well as to provide new analysis tool and underlying instrument for investors, Shanghai Stock Exchange and China Securities Index Co Ltd announced that the SSE 380 Equal Weight index is to be launched on August 12, 2011. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. July 21 , 2011 [SSE 380 Equal Weight Index Methodology]     [Constituents List]

Interoperability to Be Seen in Investors' Bond Balances
28 Jun 2011
To enhance bond market liquidity and prevent market risk, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will change the separate management over investors' balances of bonds listed on both the fixed income platform and the action system (including the block trading system) by the above two systems to the centralized management by the auction system. According to the "Notice of Interoperability in Investors' Bond Balances" published by the SSE, the cross-system short selling of bilaterally listed bonds will be technically controlled through the auction system to prevent overselling, while the ways of ordering and spot trading of bonds through the fixed income platform and the auction system as well as the trading schedule remain unchanged. The notice also stipulated that the collateralized repo will be conducted through the auction system, with the ways of ordering for trading and in-and-out storage of pledged bonds remaining unchanged. Meanwhile, the fixed income platform will not accept orders for in-and-out storage of pledged bonds temporarily. Besides, the T+0 cross-system trading of bilaterally listed bonds will come true. To be specific, investors can place orders, through the auction system, for storage of the bonds on the very day of buying them on the fixed income platform, and participate in collateralized repo. And the bonds can be sold through the fixed income platform on the same day when the orders for their out-of-storage are placed in the auction system.

Constituent Periodical Review of SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index
27 Jun 2011
Constituent Periodical Review of SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index     Constituent periodical review of SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index:   (To be effective on July 1st, 2011) Deletions Additions Bond Code Bond Shortened Name Bond Code Bond Shortened Name 122028 09华发债 122065 11上港01 122931 09临海债 122840 11临汾债 122932 09宜城债 122911 10鞍城投 122948 09锡交债 122918 10阜阳债 126014 08国电债 122983 09南钢联           Shanghai Stock Exchange 2011-6-27

SSE Plans Classified Management over Blue Chips
24 Jun 2011
The SSE will map out a classified management mechanism for blue chips while building a multi-layer blue-chip market, according to the "Shanghai Multi-layer Blue-chip Market Construction Forum" held in Chongqing on June 23. In his introduction to the SSE indices at the forum, Vice President Xie Wei of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) stressed the SSE 380 index launched in November 2010. He said that the SSE 380 index, an indicator of medium-sized listed companies' market performances, has its roots in emerging blue chips and builds up the back-up of blue chips. Its constituents cover such emerging industries as consumption, energy saving and environmental protection, new energy, and new material. According to listed companies' business performances last year, the SSE 380 index constituent companies realized a year-on-year increase of 32% in their profit, above the overall market performance. Director Chao Kejian of SSE Offering and Listing Dept. said that the bourse's blue-chip market construction is a systematic project. In line with its blue-chip market development strategy, the SSE will, in the days to come, commit itself to diversifying the products of the multi-layer blue-chip market, offering more investment products and guiding more capital to blue-chip companies. Moreover, it will promote differentiated development, categorize companies in terms of corporate governance and standardization, and adopt a classified supervision mechanism for different blue chips, for example, a different information disclosure mode, a green channel for re-financing, a pilot registration and recording system, and a different trading mechanism for grade-A companies.

Adjustment List for SSE Corporate Governance Index, SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index and SSE Social Responsibility Index
14 Jun 2011
Adjustment List for SSE Corporate Governance Index, SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index and SSE Social Responsibility Index   The following adjustment will be effective on July 1, 2011.   Adjustment list for SSE Corporate Governance Index: Deletion List Addition List Code Name Code Name 600111 Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth(Group) Hi-Tech 600027 Huadian Power International Corporation 600219 Shandong Nanshan Aluminium 600064 Nanjing Xingang High-Tech 600330 TDG Holding 600141 Hubei Xingfa Chemicals Group 600352 Zhejiang Longsheng Group 600173 Wolong Real Estate Group 600765 Avic Heavy Machinery 600190 Jinzhou Port     600223 Lushang Property     600256 Xinjiang Guanghui Industry     600262 Inner Mongolia North Hauler Joint Stock     600282 Nanjing Iron & Steel     600376 Beijing Capital Development     600422 Kunming Pharmaceutical Corp     600502 Anhui Water Resources Development     600518 Kangmei Pharmaceutical     600551 Time Publishing and Media     600657 Cinda Real Estate     600737 Cofco Tunhe     600739 Liaoning Cheng Da     600875 Dongfang Electric Corporation     600999 China Merchants Securities     601101 Beijing Haohua Energy Resource     601168 Western Mining     601299 China CNR Corporation     601607 Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Holding     601618 Metallurgical Corporation of China     601668 China State Construction Engineering Corporation     601688 Huatai Securities     601788 Everbright Securities Company     601898 China Coal Energy Company     601989 China Shipbuilding Industry Company   Adjustment list for SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index: Deletion List Addition List Code Name Code Name 600111 Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth(Group) Hi-Tech 600256 Xinjiang Guanghui Industry 600161 Beijing Tiantan Biological Products Corporation 600739 Liaoning Cheng Da 600219 Shandong Nanshan Aluminium 600875 Dongfang Electric Corporation 600269 Jiangxi Ganyue Expressway 601168 Western Mining 600352 Zhejiang Longsheng Group 601299 China CNR Corporation 600533 Nanjing Chixia Development 601618 Metallurgical Corporation of China 600601 Founder Technology Group Corp 601668 China State Construction Engineering Corporation 600718 Neusoft Corporation 601688 Huatai Securities 600839 Sichuan Changhong Electric 601898 China Coal Energy Company 601333 Guangshen Railway Company 601989 China Shipbuilding Industry Company   Adjustment list for SSE Social Responsibility Index: Deletion List Addition List Code Name Code Name 600033 Fujian Expressway Development 600176 China Fiberglass 600111 Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth(Group) Hi-Tech 600323 Nanhai Development 600219 Shandong Nanshan Aluminium 600376 Beijing Capital Development 600308 Shandong Huatai Paper 600418 Anhui Jianghuai Automobile 600317 Yingkou Port Liability 600458 Zhuzhou Times New Material Technology 600351 Yabao Pharmaceutical Group Co 600502 Anhui Water Resources Development 600352 Zhejiang Longsheng Group 600829 Harbin PharmGroup Sanjing Pharmaceutical 600495 Jinxi Axle Company 600875 Dongfang Electric Corporation 600561 Jiangxi Changyun 601101 Beijing Haohua Energy Resource 600596 Zhejiang Xinan Chemical Indusyrial Group 601607 Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Holding   Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 14th June 2011

Constituents of Governance Index Adjusted As Re-evaluation Result of SSE Corporate Governance Sector Unveiled
14 Jun 2011
Upon review by the Expert Consultative Committee for SSE Corporate Governance Sector Appraisal, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently jointly announced the adjustment to the company list of SSE Corporate Governance Sector according to rules. Constituents of SSE Corporate Governance Index, SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index and SSE Social Responsibility Index would be adjusted accordingly. The above adjustments will take effect on July 1, 2011. In this adjustment, 29 new constituents including China State Construction Engineering Corporation and Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Holding Co., Ltd. are added to SSE Corporate Governance Index, while five old ones such as Shandong Nanshan Aluminum Co., Ltd. (Nanshan Aluminum) and Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare Earth (Group) Hi-tech Co., Ltd. are deleted as Nanshan Aluminum was publicly punished by the Ministry of Finance in November 2010 for accounting irregularities and another four were criticized by the SSE due to illegal stock trading of senior management. After the adjustment, the number of SSE Corporate Governance Index constituents increases from 242 to 266, with their total market capitalization up to RMB10.8510 trillion, or 61.59% of the total of all SSE-listed A shares, and free float adjusted market capitalization hitting RMB3.3180 trillion, or 56.34% of the total of all SSE-listed A shares. According to the index rules, the constituents of SSE Corporate Governance Index are made up of all the stocks in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector. In line with the "Appraisal Measures of SSE Corporate Governance Sector", the SSE Corporate Governance Sector is finally formed through voluntary application of listed companies, public opinion solicitation, comments by consultancies, primary selection, and examination by the expert consultative committee. The Sector is re-appraised from May to June every year, and CSI adjusts the SSE Corporate Governance Index in early July according to the re-assessment result. For details of the appraisal measures of SSE Corporate Governance Sector and the compiling method of SSE Corporate Governance Index, please refer to the websites of the SSE (www.sse.com.cn) and CSI (www.csindex.com.cn). Twelve institutions participated in the appraisal of the SSE Corporate Governance Sector. They are Guotai Junan Securities Co. Ltd., Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co., Ltd., China International Capital Corporation Limited, Haitong Securities Company Limited, Fortune SG Fund Management Co., Ltd., AEGON-INDUSTRIAL Fund Management Co., Ltd., E Fund Management Co., Ltd., CCB Principal Asset Management Co., Ltd., Bank of Communications Schroders Fund Management Co., Ltd., Research Center for Financial Engineering of Nanjing University, Pengyuan Credit Rating Co., Ltd., and China Chengxin Securities Rating Co., Ltd.

Adjustment list for SSE 180, SSE 50, SSE 380 and other SSE index
13 Jun 2011
Adjustment list for SSE 180, SSE 50, SSE 380 and other SSE index   According to the index rules and the review discussions by Index Committee, SSE and CSI today together announced the semi-annual review results of SSE 180, SSE 50 and other SSE index. All changes will be effective as of the first trading day in July 2011. For more information of other SSE index changes, please refer to SSE’s official website (www.sse.com.cn) and CSI’s official website (www.csindex.com.cn).   Adjustment list for SSE 180 index： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 600008 Beijing Capital  600151 Aerospace Automobile Electromechanical 600026 China Shipping Development 600160 Zhejiang Juhua 600052 Zhejiang Guangsha 600169 Taiyuan Heavy Industry 600161 Tiantan Biological 600252 Guangxi Wuzhou Zhongheng Group 600198 Datang Telecom Technology  600259 Rising Nonferrous Metals Share  600240 Beijing Huaye Realestate 600406 NARI Technology Development  Company 600269 Jiangxi Ganyue Expressway  600516 Fangda Carbon New Material 600300 V V Food & Beverage 600584 Changjiang Electronics Technology 600481 Shuangliang Eco-Energy Systems 600600 Tsingtao Brewery Company 600533 Nanjing Chixia Development  600811 Orient Group Incorporation 600601 Founder Technology Group Corp 600863 Inner Mongolia Huaneng Thermal Power 600631 Shanghai Bailian Group 601018 Ningbo Port Company 600724 Ningbo Fuda Company 601117 China National Chemical Engineering  600808 Maanshan Iron & Steel Company 601118 China Hainan Rubber Industry Group  600816 Anxin Trust & Investment 601377 Industrial Securities 600839 Sichuan Changhong Electric 601717 Zhengzhou Coal Mining Machinery 601107 Sichuan Expressway Company 601718 Jihua Group Corporation 601333 Guangshen Railway Company 601808 China Oilfield Services   Adjustment list for SSE 50 index： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 600005 Wuhan Iron and Steel Company 600188 Yanzhou Coal Mining Company 601618 Metallurgical Corporation of China 600585 Anhui Conch Cement Company 601788 Everbright Securities Company 601118 China Hainan Rubber Industry Group  601988 Bank of China 601766 CSR Corporation 601998 China CITIC Bank Corporation 601989 China Shipbuilding Industry Company   Adjustment list for SSE 380 index： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 600007 China World Trade Center Company 600008 Beijing Capital  600055 Beijing Wandong Medical Equipment 600026 China Shipping Development Company 600082 Tianjin Hi-Tech Development 600114 NBTM New Materials Group  600126 Hangzhou Iron & Steel 600122 Jiangsu Hongtu High Technology 600151 Shanghai Aerospace Automobile Electromechanical 600139 Sichuan Western Resources Holding  600160 Zhejiang Juhua 600143 Kingfa Sci&Tech 600162 Shenzhen Heungkong Holding Co 600161 Beijing Tiantan Biological Products Corporation 600169 Taiyuan Heavy Industry 600172 Henan Huanghe Whirlwind  600235 Minfeng Special Paper 600236 Guangxi Guiguan Electric Power 600247 Jilin Chengcheng Group 600269 Jiangxi Ganyue Expressway  600252 Guangxi Wuzhou Zhongheng Group 600273 Huafang Textile 600321 Sichuan Guodong Construction  600300 V V Food & Beverage 600337 Markor International Furniture 600481 Shuangliang Eco-Energy Systems 600356 Mudanjiang Hengfeng Paper 600503 Deluxe Family  600358 China United Travel 600533 Nanjing Chixia Development  600361 Beijing Hualian Hypermarket 600601 Founder Technology Group Corp 600406 NARI Technology Development  Company 600606 Shanghai Jinfeng Investment 600452 Chongqing Fuling Electric Power Industrial 600620 Shanghai Tianchen 600486 Jiangsu Yangnong Chemical 600631 Shanghai Bailian Group 600512 Tengda Construction Group  600667 Wuxi Taiji Industry Company 600516 Fangda Carbon New Material 600724 Ningbo Fuda Company 600560 Beijing Aritime Intelligent Control  600808 Maanshan Iron & Steel Company 600569 Anyang Iron & Steel Inc 600839 Sichuan Changhong Electric 600571 Sunyard System Engineering 600998 Jointown Pharmaceutical Group  600584 Jiangsu Changjiang Electronics Technology 601098 China South Publishing & Media Group  600600 Tsingtao Brewery Company 601107 Sichuan Expressway Company 600665 Tande 601126 Beijing Sifang Automation 600692 Shanghai Ya Tong 601137 Ningbo Powerway Alloy Material Company 600777 Yantai Xinchao Industry 601177 Hangzhou Advance Gearbox Group  600780 Top Energy Company Shanxi 601333 Guangshen Railway Company 600798 Ningbo Marine Company 601519 Shanghai Great Wisdom  600811 Orient Group Incorporation 601558 Sinovel Wind Group  600863 Inner Mongolia Thermal Power Corporation 601700 Changshu Fengfan Power Equipment 600883 Yunnan Bowin Technology Industry 601777 Lifan Industry (Group) 601117 China National Chemical Engineering  601880 Dalian Port (PDA) Company 601808 China Oilfield Services 601890 Asian Star Anchor Chain  601999 Publishing & Media (Group) Company 601933 Yonghui Superstores      Shanghai Stock Exchanges China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 13th June 2011

Adjustment list for SSE 180, SSE 50, SSE 380 and other SSE index
13 Jun 2011
Adjustment list for SSE 180, SSE 50, SSE 380 and other SSE index   According to the index rules and the review discussions by Index Committee, SSE and CSI today together announced the semi-annual review results of SSE 180, SSE 50 and other SSE index. All changes will be effective as of the first trading day in July 2011. For more information of other SSE index changes, please refer to SSE’s official website (www.sse.com.cn) and CSI’s official website (www.csindex.com.cn).   Adjustment list for SSE 180 index： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 600008 Beijing Capital  600151 Aerospace Automobile Electromechanical 600026 China Shipping Development 600160 Zhejiang Juhua 600052 Zhejiang Guangsha 600169 Taiyuan Heavy Industry 600161 Tiantan Biological 600252 Guangxi Wuzhou Zhongheng Group 600198 Datang Telecom Technology  600259 Rising Nonferrous Metals Share  600240 Beijing Huaye Realestate 600406 NARI Technology Development  Company 600269 Jiangxi Ganyue Expressway  600516 Fangda Carbon New Material 600300 V V Food & Beverage 600584 Changjiang Electronics Technology 600481 Shuangliang Eco-Energy Systems 600600 Tsingtao Brewery Company 600533 Nanjing Chixia Development  600811 Orient Group Incorporation 600601 Founder Technology Group Corp 600863 Inner Mongolia Huaneng Thermal Power 600631 Shanghai Bailian Group 601018 Ningbo Port Company 600724 Ningbo Fuda Company 601117 China National Chemical Engineering  600808 Maanshan Iron & Steel Company 601118 China Hainan Rubber Industry Group  600816 Anxin Trust & Investment 601377 Industrial Securities 600839 Sichuan Changhong Electric 601717 Zhengzhou Coal Mining Machinery 601107 Sichuan Expressway Company 601718 Jihua Group Corporation 601333 Guangshen Railway Company 601808 China Oilfield Services   Adjustment list for SSE 50 index： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 600005 Wuhan Iron and Steel Company 600188 Yanzhou Coal Mining Company 601618 Metallurgical Corporation of China 600585 Anhui Conch Cement Company 601788 Everbright Securities Company 601118 China Hainan Rubber Industry Group  601988 Bank of China 601766 CSR Corporation 601998 China CITIC Bank Corporation 601989 China Shipbuilding Industry Company   Adjustment list for SSE 380 index： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 600007 China World Trade Center Company 600008 Beijing Capital  600055 Beijing Wandong Medical Equipment 600026 China Shipping Development Company 600082 Tianjin Hi-Tech Development 600114 NBTM New Materials Group  600126 Hangzhou Iron & Steel 600122 Jiangsu Hongtu High Technology 600151 Shanghai Aerospace Automobile Electromechanical 600139 Sichuan Western Resources Holding  600160 Zhejiang Juhua 600143 Kingfa Sci&Tech 600162 Shenzhen Heungkong Holding Co 600161 Beijing Tiantan Biological Products Corporation 600169 Taiyuan Heavy Industry 600172 Henan Huanghe Whirlwind  600235 Minfeng Special Paper 600236 Guangxi Guiguan Electric Power 600247 Jilin Chengcheng Group 600269 Jiangxi Ganyue Expressway  600252 Guangxi Wuzhou Zhongheng Group 600273 Huafang Textile 600321 Sichuan Guodong Construction  600300 V V Food & Beverage 600337 Markor International Furniture 600481 Shuangliang Eco-Energy Systems 600356 Mudanjiang Hengfeng Paper 600503 Deluxe Family  600358 China United Travel 600533 Nanjing Chixia Development  600361 Beijing Hualian Hypermarket 600601 Founder Technology Group Corp 600406 NARI Technology Development  Company 600606 Shanghai Jinfeng Investment 600452 Chongqing Fuling Electric Power Industrial 600620 Shanghai Tianchen 600486 Jiangsu Yangnong Chemical 600631 Shanghai Bailian Group 600512 Tengda Construction Group  600667 Wuxi Taiji Industry Company 600516 Fangda Carbon New Material 600724 Ningbo Fuda Company 600560 Beijing Aritime Intelligent Control  600808 Maanshan Iron & Steel Company 600569 Anyang Iron & Steel Inc 600839 Sichuan Changhong Electric 600571 Sunyard System Engineering 600998 Jointown Pharmaceutical Group  600584 Jiangsu Changjiang Electronics Technology 601098 China South Publishing & Media Group  600600 Tsingtao Brewery Company 601107 Sichuan Expressway Company 600665 Tande 601126 Beijing Sifang Automation 600692 Shanghai Ya Tong 601137 Ningbo Powerway Alloy Material Company 600777 Yantai Xinchao Industry 601177 Hangzhou Advance Gearbox Group  600780 Top Energy Company Shanxi 601333 Guangshen Railway Company 600798 Ningbo Marine Company 601519 Shanghai Great Wisdom  600811 Orient Group Incorporation 601558 Sinovel Wind Group  600863 Inner Mongolia Thermal Power Corporation 601700 Changshu Fengfan Power Equipment 600883 Yunnan Bowin Technology Industry 601777 Lifan Industry (Group) 601117 China National Chemical Engineering  601880 Dalian Port (PDA) Company 601808 China Oilfield Services 601890 Asian Star Anchor Chain  601999 Publishing & Media (Group) Company 601933 Yonghui Superstores      Shanghai Stock Exchanges China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 13th June 2011

SSE Fundamental Indexes to Be Launched
09 Jun 2011
To further enhance the SSE index family as well as to provide new analysis tool and underlying instrument for investors, Shanghai Stock Exchange and China Securities Index Co Ltd announced that the SSE Fundamental Indexes are to be launched on July 1, 2011. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. June 9, 2011 [SSE Fundamental Indexes Methodology]     [Constituents List] 

SSEF Index Series to Be Launched on Jul. 1
09 Jun 2011
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently announced that the SSEF Index Series will be officially launched on July 1, 2011. The Series are made up of SSEF 200 Index, SSEF 300 Index and SSEF 500 Index. Out of all A-share SSE-listed companies, the top 200, the middle 300 and the top 500 ones in terms of fundamental value (FV) will be respectively handpicked to be the constituent companies of the Series. The fundamental value will be measured through four financial indicators, namely business income, cash flow, net assets and dividend. The weight of the constituent is determined by its fundamental value, thus breaking off the relation between the price of the constituent and its weight in the traditional market capitalization-based index and preventing, to some extent, the phenomenon of excessive overvalued stocks in the conventional market value-based index. For details of the index compilation scheme, please refer to the SSE website (www.sse.com.cn) and CSI website (www.csindex.com.cn). The SSEF Index Series is characterized by the way of determining the weight of its constituent. Previously, the weight of a constituent of a market value-index was calculated according to its market capitalization (stock price). However, in the Series, the weight of a constituent is based on its fundament value, which in turn depends on its financial indicators. The new method aims to reduce the phenomena of "excessive overvalued stocks and insufficient undervalued ones" in the market value-based indices. FV-based indices' innovative investment concept and outstanding market performances are increasingly recognized by large-scale investment institutions and investors. The world has seen over 70 ETFs and index funds adopting FV-based indices investment strategy, and such famous institutional investors as the California Public Employees' Retirement System, the Nobel Foundation and Japan Pension Service have become important clients of those products. In China, Harvest Fund and PingAn HK have respectively developed the index fund and EFT (listed on the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited) on the basis of CSI RAFI 50 Index, the first A-share fundamental index, and Bosera Funds has recently closed the fund-raising for the SZSE Fundamental 200 ETF. The total assets of the above three are nearly RMB4.5 billion. Overseas, the scale of assets relating to FV-based indices boasts more than US$45 billion. FV-based indices have evolved into an index investment strategy with fastest growing assets. The introduction of the Series will diversify and perfect the SSE index system and resource and promote the development and innovation of index-based investment products on the SSE market. It is learnt that some fund companies have expressed their interests in developing ETFs or index funds based on the Series.

Notice of Paper Solicitation for 2nd "SSE Legal Forum" also "On Securities Laws" (Volume V)
07 Jun 2011
While China's capital market saw historic breakthroughs in its growth in recent years, the legal construction has also achieved remarkable results, especially after the publication of the "Securities Law" and the "Company Law" (hereinafter shortened as the Laws) amended in 2005. However, as time goes by, the sustainable development of capital market calls for more mature and effective legal support and the Laws, playing a fundamental role in the reform and development of capital market, also require continuous improvement. To promote relevant research, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will join hands with Peking University Law School, Law School of Renmin University of China and Economic Law Academy of East China University of Political Science and Law to hold the 2nd "SSE Legal Forum" with the theme of "perfection of 'Securities Law' and 'Company Law'" at the end of 2011. It hereby solicits papers to experts and scholars of theoretic and practical communities worldwide. A paper appraisal will be organized, with the prizes of RMB5,000-10,000 to be awarded to the winners and the outstanding papers to be published in the "On Securities Law" (Volume V; Publication is expected in November 2011). Contributions to the 2nd "SSE Legal Forum" will be viewed as contributions to the "On Securities Law" (Volume V). Interested contributors should pay attention to the following issues: I. Scope of Papers Contributions are expected to be research papers on the Laws, especially the perfection of the "Securities Law", with the proposed topics as follows: (I) Evaluation of implementation results of the Laws and their supportive regulations and business rules 1. Research on effects of legal transplant in China's capital market (for example, the system of governance of listed companies); 2. Empirical study of legal force of business rules on securities market; 3. Analysis of legal sense in significant cases on securities market since the implementation of the "Securities Law" (Amendment); 4. Research on legislative authorization mechanism in the "Securities Law" and its effects. (II) New development trends of overseas "Securities Laws" and "Company Laws" and their references 1. Legal reform of overseas capital markets and improvement of China's "Securities Law"; 2. Updates of overseas securities legislation and research on its development trends; 3. Updates of overseas company legislation and research on its development trends. (III) Major fundamental theoretical issues in the amendment to the "Securities Law" and relevant suggestions 1. Securities entitlements and amendment to the "Securities Law" in the paperless environment; 2. Comprehensive operation of financial industry and regulatory scope of the "Securities Law"; 3. Qualified investors system in innovation of capital market and perfection of the "Securities Law"; 4. Protection of financial consumers and perfection of the "Securities Law". (IV) Suggestions to amendment and perfection of securities issuing and listing systems 1. Market-oriented reform of securities issuing system and amendment to the "Securities Law"; 2. Privately issuing of securities and perfection of the "Securities Law"; 3. Research on perfection of securities listing and delisting systems; 4. Board switch mechanism for a multi-layer capital market and amendment to the "Securities Law". (V) Suggestions to amendment and perfection of securities trading and market supervision systems 1. Research on perfection of securities trading and registration and settlement systems; 2. Adjustment to insider trading system and perfection of the "Securities Law"; 3. Restraint of short-term manipulation and amendment to the "Securities Law"; 4. Innovation and perfection of China's securities law enforcement system; 5. Legal path for restructuring stock exchanges into companies and perfection of the "Securities Law". (VI) Amendment to the "Securities Law" and development and innovation of capital market 1. Development of bourses' corporate bond markets and amendment to the "Securities Law"; 2. Products innovation of capital market and amendment to the "Securities Law"; 3. Domestically issuing and listing of overseas enterprises and perfection of the "Securities Law". II. Contribution Deadline The end of September 2011 III. Requirements for Contributions 1. Scientific argumentation, sufficient evidence, rigorous logic, clear-cut structure and fluent expression are expected from the contributions, with market-oriented ones with high academic quality and practical value especially welcomed. About 10,000 characters are preferable to each contribution. Extraordinarily outstanding ones, however, will not be subject to this limit. 2. Please send your contributions, which comply with the national regulations on copyright, the generally accepted academic standards and the requirements specified in the "Layout Style" of the "On Securities Law" (Please refer to the "On Securities Law" and the "Research & Publication" column on the official website [www.sse.com.cn] of the SSE), to zqfy@sse.com.cn. 3. The editorial office of the journal reserves the right to make literary and technical amendments to the contributions. Articles published in the journal do not represent the stance of the SSE. Authors of the articles shall take all legal responsibilities in that regard. Except those with special statements, all the opinions expressed in the articles are personal and have nothing to do with the authors' positions or employers. 4. Contribution to the "On Securities Law" will be viewed as authorizing the journal to include the papers into the "China Academic Journal Network Publishing Database", CNKI Series Database, chinalawinfo.com (Peking University Legal Information Network) Journal Database, Wanfang Database, and other academic resource databases recognized by the journal. The royalties paid by the journal to the authors include the copyright royalties of the above databases. Please specify any objections in your contributions so that the journal can make arrangements accordingly. 5. Contacts: Lu Wendao (Tel: 021-68801911; 18918500650) Wang Shengyi (Tel: 021-68812549; 18918500391) Wu Junqiao (Tel: 021-68805400; 13681641450) Shanghai Stock Exchange June 2011

SSE, CSI Updating Industry Classification of Listed Companies
03 Jun 2011
Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently published the adjusted industry classification of A-share listed companies on the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange according to the annual reports of 2010. The adjustment involves 46 A-share listed companies. For the results of industry classification, please refer to the SSE website (www.sse.com.cn) or the CSI website (www.csindex.com.cn). The adjustment will take effect on July 1, 2011. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co Ltd 2011-6-3

Notice of New Candidates for "SSE Corporate Governance Sector"
01 Jun 2011
To perfect listed companies' governance mechanism and promote the long-term sound development of capital market in China, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) officially launched the SSE Corporate Governance Sector in January 2008. According to the "Appraisal Measures of SSE Corporate Governance Sector", after the completion of annual reports disclosure, the SSE will adjust the constituents of the corporate governance sector and receive voluntary applications from new companies on the basis of the original 242 companies. It hereby publicizes the 35 new candidate companies for the public to review their governance and put forward constructive suggestions or comments. Please submit your suggestions or comments in written form or by email to China Securities Index Co., Ltd. before June 8, 2011. Contact methods: Fax: 8621-68829830 E-mail: zhliu@sse.com.cn Correspondence Address: Liu Zhenhua, China Securities Index Co., Ltd., 13/F, South Tower, Shanghai Stock Exchange Building, 528 South Pudong Road, Shanghai Postcode: 200120 Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. June 1, 2011

List of New Candidate Companies for “SSE Corporate Governance Sector”
01 Jun 2011
List of New Candidate Companies for “SSE Corporate Governance Sector”   No. Stock Code Company Name 1 600027 Huadian Power International Corporation Limited 2 600064 Nanjing Xingang High-Tech Co., Ltd. 3 600109 Sinolink Securities Co., Ltd. 4 600137 Sichuan Langsha Holding Co., Ltd. 5 600141 Hubei Xingfa Chemicals      Group Co., Ltd. 6 600173 Wolong Real Estate Group Co., Ltd. 7 600184 North Electro-Optic Co., Ltd. 8 600190 Jinzhou Port Co., Ltd. 9 600200 Jiangsu Wuzhong Industrial Co., Ltd. 10 600223 Lushang Property Co., Ltd. 11 600256 Xinjiang Guanghui Industry Co., Ltd. 12 600262 Inner Mongolia North Hauler Joint Stock Co., Ltd. 13 600282 Nanjing Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. 14 600376 Beijing Capital Development Co., Ltd. 15 600422 Kunming Pharmaceutical Corp. 16 600502 Anhui Water Resources Development Co., Ltd. 17 600518 Kangmei Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 18 600551 Time Publishing & Media Co., Ltd. 19 600657 Cinda Real Estate Co., Ltd. 20 600684 Guangzhou Pearl River Industrial Development Co., Ltd. 21 600737 COFCO Tunhe Co., Ltd. 22 600739 Liaoning Chengda Co., Ltd. 23 600875 Dongfang Electric Corporation Limited 24 600999 China Merchants Securities Co., Ltd. 25 601101 Beijing Haohua Energy Resource Co., Ltd. 26 601168 Western Mining Co., Ltd. 27 601179 China XD Electric Co., Ltd. 28 601299 China CNR Corporation Limited 29 601607 Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Holding Co., Ltd. 30 601618 Metallurgical Corporation of China Ltd. 31 601668 China State Construction Engineering Corporation Limited 32 601688 Huatai Securities Co., Ltd. 33 601788 Everbright Securities Company Limited 34 601898 China Coal Energy Company Limited 35 601989 China Shipbuilding Industry Company Limited    

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2011 Dragon Boat Festival
27 May 2011
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the 2011 Dragon Boat Festival according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2011" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2010] No. 30). The SSE will close from June 4 (Saturday) to 6 (Monday), and open for trading on June 7 (Tuesday). Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange May 27, 2011

Liu: SSE 380 May Be Growth Indicator of SSE-listed Companies
27 May 2011
The future growth of companies listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) may be reflected through SSE 380 index, SSE Vice President Liu Xiaodong said at the "Shanghai Multi-layer Blue-chip Market Construction Forum: Corporate Financing, Institutional Investment and SSE Indices" yesterday. In elaborating on the multi-layer capital market in his keynote speech, Liu stressed that broadly speaking, a multi-layer capital market is supposed to be classified according to risk. The first-tier or low-level market, includes low-risk fixed income products, such as treasury bonds and corporate bonds. The second-tier market is featured by equities, and mainly means a system covering the basic over-the-counter market, SME Board, Growth Enterprises Board and the main board. The third-tier also the highest-level market is what we called derivatives market. "Thus, we should discuss the construction of a multi-layer capital market at these three levels." Liu also introduced the basic situation of the SSE and its index compilation system. It is learnt that the SSE now boasts 906 listed companies with a total market capitalization of RMB19 trillion, ranked 5th and 6th in the world, respectively. As to the corporate composition, there are both large-scale enterprises with nearly RMB2 trillion market capitalization (i.e. PetroChina Company Limited) and small companies with market capitalization of less than RMB1 billion. Given the multi-level structure, the SSE made a comprehensive and considerate arrangement for its index compilation system. Among the current SSE indices, there are not only SSE 50, SSE 180 and SSE 380 indices, which are divided according to basic market behavior, but also industry indices, such as financial and real estate indices. Generally speaking, SSE 50, SSE 180 and SSE 380 constitute the framework of SSE indices. Speaking of the SSE 380 index launched at the end of 2010, Liu noted that it is closely related to the construction of a multi-layer capital market. According to him, thanks to its popularity, some fund management firms expressed hope to develop products based on it less than one year after its introduction to the market. As products are usually developed on the basis of an index after one year of its debut, it is obvious that the SSE 380 index has shown strong vitality. He said that the growth of the SSE may be witnessed by the SSE 380 index. In his closing speech, Liu expressed his belief in the increasing improvement of issuing and listing market, corporate quality and level of marketization. He expected listed companies to enhance competitiveness from the perspectives of both industry and corporate governance.

Adjustment List for SSE Wealth Mid-Small Index
19 May 2011
Adjustment List for SSE Wealth Mid-Small Index   The following adjustments will be effective on the first trading day of June, 2011.   Shanghai Stock Exchange  China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 2010.05.19     Adjustment List for SSE Wealth Mid-Small Index: Addtion List Deletion List Code Name Code Name 600067 Citychamp Dartong 600035 Hubei Chutian Expressway 600152 Ningbo Veken Elite Group 600052 Zhejiang Guangsha 600187 Heilongjiang Interchina Watertreatment 600058 Minmetals Development 600193 Shanghai Prosolarreal Estate 600096 Yunnan Yuntianhua 600197 Xinjiang Yilite Industry 600105 Jiangsu Etern Co 600233 Dalian Dayang Trands 600120 Zhejiang Orient Holdings 600252 Guangxi Wuzhou Zhongheng Group 600203 Fujian Furi Electronics  600262 Inner Mongolia North Hauler Joint Stock  600228 Jiangxi Changjiu Biochemical Industry 600263 Road & Bridge International 600230 Cangzhou Dahua 600302 Xi'An Typical Industries 600238 Hainan Yedao (Group) 600318 Anhui Chaodong Cement 600246 Beijing Vantone Real Estate 600346 Dalian Rubber & Plastics Machinery 600293 Hubei Sanxia New Building Materials 600391 Sichuan Chengfa Aero Science & Technology 600317 Yingkou Port Liability 600405 Beijing Dynamic Power  600345 Wuhan Yangtze Communication Industry Group 600409 Tangshan Sanyou Chemical Industries 600499 Keda Industrial  600433 Guangdong Guanhao High-Tech 600508 Shanghai Datun Energy Resources 600459 Sino-Platinum Metals 600546 Shanxi Coal International Energy Group  600467 Shandong Homeya Quaticevelopment 600549 Xiamen Tungsten 600485 Beijing Zhongchuang Telecom Test 600606 Shanghai Jinfeng Investment 600575 Wuhu Port Storage&Transportation 600620 Shanghai Tianchen 600624 Shanghai Fudan Forward S&T  600650 Shanghai Jin Jiang International Industrial Investment 600666 Southwest Pharmaceutical 600773 Tibet Urban Development and Investment 600696 Shanghai Duolun Industry 600814 Hangzhou Jiebai Group 600723 Beijing Xidan Department Store 600816 Anxin Trust & Investment 600738 Lanzhou Minbai Shareholding(Group) 600896 China Shipping Haisheng 600759 Hainan Zhenghe Industrial Group  600976 Wuhan Jianmin Pharmaceutical Groups Co 600763 Topchoice Medical Investment Inc 601188 Heilongjiang Transport Development  600784 Luyin Investment Group 601518 Jilin Expressway 600801 Huaxin Cement 601766 CSR Corporation 600975 Hunan New Wellful 601872 China Merchants Energy Shipping     

SSE Investment Commodity Index, SSE Consume Commodity Index, SSE 380 Sector Indices, CSI 300 Sector Equal Weight Index and CSI 500 Equal Weight Index To Be Launched(2011-05-19)
19 May 2011
To further enhance the SSE and CSI index family as well as to provide new analysis tools and underlying instrument for investors, SSE Investment Commodity Index, SSE Consume Commodity Index, SSE 380 Sector Indices, CSI 300 Sector Equal Weight Index and CSI 500 Equal Weight Index are to be launched on June 13 2011 by SSE and CSI. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. May 19th , 2011

Xu: Quicken Definition of Legal Status of Private Equity
16 May 2011
Private equity asks for timely definition of legal status and proper supervision, Vice President Xu Ming of the Shanghai Stock Exchange said on May 13 at the "2011 Forum on Equity Investment in China" hosted by Shanghai Securities News. In Xu's opinion, the standardized operation and healthy development of private equity requires effective legal support and proper external supervision. Overall, there has been no legal system or supervision mechanism applicable to private equity, and the construction of relevant supportive systems is lagging behind. Therefore, the Fund Law, which is undergoing amendment at present, must keep pace with the times and include private equity into its scope. "What we need to think about is how to design a supportive system which is beneficial to the long-lasting innovation and healthy growth of private equity. And it definitely asks for ongoing contribution of all market participants." Xu said that the Fund Law should take private equity fund's particularity into consideration and adopt flexible supervision. Over-the-top generosity and regulation are both undesired. After being included into the scope of the Fund Law, the supervision mode of private equity fund should not copy from that of public fund or privately offered securities fund. All in all, after defining the legal status of private equity fund in the Fund Law, an appropriate external supervision is necessary. Despite its rapid growth in China, private equity is facing some problems and challenges. Xu classified them into four aspects. First of all, the private equity still lacks standardization, and sees such phenomena as excessive competition, performance beautification in the process of corporate restructuring for listing, performance decline after listing, and "corruption" in investments. Secondly, the value creation function has not been given full play due to the immature pricing mechanism of stock market and the investment concentration on Pre-IPO link. In the third place, as the undeveloped merger, acquisition and reorganization market limits the diversified investments, private equity heavily relies on IPO for investment withdrawal. Finally, the lack of a standardized OTC market results in the over-reliance on centralized market in the process of investment withdrawal. As to the future climate for development of private equity, Xu stressed that it is a systematic project to create an eco-environment suitable for sustainable and sound growth of private equity in the backdrop of building up a multi-layer capital market. Under the current circumstance, the following three measures are of great significance. Firstly, to diversify the investment scope of private equity, priorities should be given to the functions of private equity such as promoting equity financing, improving corporate governance, enhancing corporate competitiveness, and boosting business growth, and the lifting of government barriers for private equity's entry in enterprises of different industries, fields, sizes and development stages. In the second place, market selection and withdraw mechanisms should be optimized by perfecting stock issuance system and reinforcing delisting mechanism of listed companies in line with the law of the market and building the board switch system among different layers of markets and improving the pricing efficiency on issuance and secondary markets for a real survival-of-the-fittest market selection mechanism. Finally, the investment eco-climate of private equity should be optimized by improving the market credibility system, cultivating rational and healthy equity investment culture, reinforcing private equity's self-discipline, risk and legal awareness, and enhancing various service systems.

SSE to Introduce Cross-border ETFs This Year
14 May 2011
Debut of Hong Kong share ETFs is drawing near as regulators, bourses and industry representatives from China's mainland and Hong Kong gathered in Hong Kong on May 13 for a seminar on cross-border products cooperation and development. Cross-border ETFs may adopt "T+2" settlement. Both capital markets in China's mainland and Hong Kong are facing hard-won development opportunities, and both the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (HKEx) bear the tasks and missions of better serving China's economic growth according to the newly released "12th Five-year" Plan. Moreover, the progression of RMB globalization is rejuvenating the two capital markets. Under this circumstance, the above two bourses must join hands to share the development opportunities, SSE President Zhang Yujun said. "We have reached a consensus on the cross-listing of index products, and expect more cross-listed products including ETFs and closer cooperation in the future." Zhang added. As to the regulations on dual listing of ETFs, Secretary K C Chan for Financial Services and the Treasury Bureau said that relevant regulations had been basically in place after the 6th and 7th supplementary agreements on CEPA were signed between China's mainland and Hong Kong. HKEx Chairman Ronald Arculli pointed out that thanks to the current high demand for ETFs and index products on the Asian market, the SSE and HKEx may make closer cooperation in ETFs, especially cross-listing of index products, in the days to come. In terms of the launch timetable, SSE Vice President Liu Xiaodong said that cross-border ETFs are just a few months away. Director Zhao Xiaoping of the SSE Products Development Department unveiled that ETF would make its debut before the end of 2011 as no obstacle is seen at present. Considering the "T+2" settlement adopted for HK ETFs, the first cross-border ETFs will follow suit. QDII foreign exchange quotas may be granted for cross-border ETFs. According to Zhao, the SSE's 3rd "Ten-year" strategic development plan gives equal priority to fund market and blue-chip market. 2010 witnessed the explosive growth of 10 ETFs. This year, another 20 are on the waiting list. In 2012, 40 ETFs will be introduced to the public. Till the second half of 2013, the SSE will boast 100 ETFs. The pattern of single-market ETFs is about to get a breakthrough as the agreement on some key risk and settlement issues of cross-market products have been reached. So far, almost all major international index companies have entered into agreements with the SSE. Besides, the SSE is studying the possibility of listing cross-system gold ETFs. It is learnt that the first cross-border ETFs must be products related to Hong Kong share index, and the current Hong Kong share ETFs under development of domestic fund companies include Hang Seng Index ETF and Chinese-funded private enterprise ETF. According to industry insiders, the issuance of cross-border ETFs by domestic fund companies will occupy their QDII foreign exchange quotas. However, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange has agreed to increase the quotas in case of vibrant trading and enthusiastic subscription after listing to avoid possible short squeeze.

SSE Encourages Listed Banks to Trade Bonds at Bourse
12 May 2011
On May 11, Bank of Communications submitted orders to the auction system of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) through its rented business units, and concluded deals of RMB40 million, which not only marked the success of the mode whereby listed commercial banks participate in the trading of bonds at the bourse through their business units rented from securities companies but also proved the SSE's capability to ensure the security of listed commercial banks' trading information and technology in the aforesaid mode. Since the "Notice of Relevant Issues Concerning Listed Commercial Banks' Pilot Trading of Bonds at Stock Exchanges" was jointly issued by the People's Bank of China (PBC), the China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) and the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) in September 2010, the SSE, attaching great importance to the pilot project of listed commercial banks' return to the bourse's bond market, has made careful preparations with all its resources according to the unified deployment of the CSRC and in the principle of "warm welcome, efficient service and ensured safety" by publishing the notice of pilot project and the business guide in time, combing relevant business procedures earnestly, and checking and removing technical risks thoroughly. A one-stop service team has also been set up and accomplished a great deal of market promotion and coordination work including policy interpretation, market survey, business and technical training, and on-the-spot business handling. On December 6, 2010, Bank of Communications completed the first deal through the SSE auction system, becoming the first listed commercial bank returning to the bourse's bond market after 13 years. Afterwards, other listed commercial banks followed suit by clarifying business procedures, perfecting internal control mechanism and configuring and optimizing technical systems on the one hand and negotiating with securities companies for rent of business units on the other hand. At present, listed commercial banks including Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC), Bank of Beijing, and Bank of Nanjing are actively handling relevant procedures. Listed commercial banks' return to bourses' bond markets is the first step of the development of China's unified and interrelated bond market and an inevitable growth trend of China's bond market as well. It is a crucial move of the PBC, the CBRC and the CSRC to carry out the requirements of establishment of a unified and interrelated bond market in the "Nine Opinions" and promotion of listed commercial banks' pilot trading at bourses' bond markets in the "30 Opinions on Finance". Industry insiders held that the success in listed commercial banks' trading at SSE bond market was an embodiment of the SSE and listed commercial banks' implementation of relevant work instructions of the PBC, the CBRC and the CSRC. It put an end to the 13-year separation of China's bond market participants, and signaled a substantial progress in the building of China's unified and interrelated bond market. This great step forward will benefit the liquidity and operating efficiency of China's bond market, expand the financing scale and the direct financing proportion and reinforce the pricing function of bond yields for a healthier long-term market growth, and be conducive to the stable, sound and fast development of China's capital market as well as the increased efficiency and capability of capital market in serving national economy. According to an official of the SSE, the bourse, upholding the philosophy of serving markets and investors, will learn from its experience and perfect relevant trading and settlement systems consistently to boost the construction of China's unified and interrelated bond market.

Overview of Annual Reports of 2010, 1Q Reports of 2011 of SSE-listed Companies
30 Apr 2011
Overview of Annual Reports of 2010, 1Q Reports of 2011 of SSE-listed Companies   April 30, 2011 witnessed the completion of disclosure of annual reports of 2010 and 1st quarter reports of 2011. All 906 SSE-listed companies disclosed their annual reports of 2010 (Four of them were disclosed by way of prospectus) and 1st quarter reports of 2011 as scheduled.   Preliminary statistical analysis unveiled the following features of SSE-listed companies’ annual reports of 2010:   I. Both overall performance and earning per share see remarkable improvement.   According to statistics, in 2010, SSE-listed companies boasted RMB13.8713 trillion business income, RMB1.8655 trillion business profit and RMB1.4168 trillion net profit owned by shareholders of listed companies, or jumps of 33.84%, 36.95% and 37.25% year on year, respectively. Their weighted average earning per share, return on net assets, net asset value per share, and net cash flow from operating activities per share stood at RMB0.5032, 15.17%, RMB3.32, and RMB0.85, respectively. In contrast, the weighted average earning per share and return on net assets in 2009 were RMB0.4178 and 12.28%, respectively.   Big-cap blue chips and constituent stocks of SSE Dividend Index stood out for their performances (see the table below) higher than the average on the market, and became the backbone of SSE-listed companies.     Earning per share (yuan) Return on net assets (%) Net asset value per share (yuan) SSE market 0.5032 15.17 3.32 SSE 50 0.5596 16.68 3.36 SSE 180 0.5424 16.03 3.38 SSE Dividend Index 0.6982 14.22 4.91   II. Over a half listed companies prefer profit distribution or capitalization from capital public reserve, yet with a declined proportion of cash dividend distribution.   Statistics show that a total of 521 firms put forward schemes of profit distribution or capitalization from capital public reserve in their annual reports of 2010, accounting for 57.5% of the total that had disclosed the annual reports. Specifically, 497 (or 54.86%) firms planned cash dividend distribution. Moreover, the total cash dividend to be distributed by listed companies according to their annual reports accounted for 26.67% of the total net profit of all SSE-listed companies.   III. Number of companies suffering loss dropped dramatically.   A total of 6.07% (or 55) companies suffered loss in 2010, while the proportion in 2009 was 12.9%.   Among those suffering loss, 37 firms were newcomers, 15 were imposed with delisting risk alert (marked with *ST) for losses for two consecutive years, and listing of 2 was suspended for losses for three years in a row. Another 96 companies turned losses into gains.   IV. Proportion of non-standard audit opinions declined.   Of the 906 SSE-listed companies which had disclosed their annual reports, 59 (or 6.5%) firms faced with non-standard audit opinions on their financial accounting reports, while those figures in 2009 were 59 and 6.8%, respectively.   The 59 firms facing with non-standard audit opinions can be further classified into 42 companies facing with unqualified audit opinion with stressed issues, 16 with qualified opinion, and 1 with disclaimer of opinion.   Upon preliminary statistics of 1st quarter reports of 2011, the weighted average earning per share, return on net assets, and net asset value per share were RMB0.1475, 4.24% and RMB3.48, respectively.  

SSE High-End Equipment Manufacturing 60 index,SSE 180 Equal Weight Index,SSE 180 Sector Equal Weight Index to be launched
29 Apr 2011
To further enhance the SSE and CSI index family as well as to provide new analysis tool and underlying instrument for investors, SSE High-End Equipment Manufacturing 60 index,SSE 180 Equal Weight Index,SSE 180 Sector Equal Weight Index are to be launched on May 24 2011 by SSE and CSI. The methodologies can be seen in www.sse.com.cn and www.csindex.com.cn. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. April 29th , 2011

SSE High-End Equipment Manufacturing 60 index,SSE 180 Equal Weight Index,SSE 180 Sector Equal Weight Index to be launched
29 Apr 2011
To further enhance the SSE and CSI index family as well as to provide new analysis tool and underlying instrument for investors, SSE High-End Equipment Manufacturing 60 index,SSE 180 Equal Weight Index,SSE 180 Sector Equal Weight Index are to be launched on May 24 2011 by SSE and CSI. The methodologies can be seen in www.sse.com.cn and www.csindex.com.cn. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. April 29th , 2011

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2011 Labor Day
22 Apr 2011
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces its market closure schedule for 2011 Labor Day according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2011" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2010] No. 30) as follows: the SSE will close from April 30 (Saturday) to May 2 (Monday) and open for trading on May 3 (Tuesday). Please make relevant arrangements according to this notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange April 22, 2011

SSE Tightens Regulation over Secretaries to Directorates for Improved Corporate Governance
18 Apr 2011
"SSE Measures for Regulation of Listed Companies' Secretaries to Directorates" (Amendment) Published Today To upgrade governance of listed companies and standardize appointment, duty performance, training and evaluation of listed companies' secretaries to directorates, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) published the amended "SSE Measures for Regulation of Listed Companies' Secretaries to Directorates" today and asked listed companies to amend the work systems of secretaries to directorates and establish the business departments managed by secretaries to directorates within one month after the release of the amended SSE measures for further clarification of the status of senior management staff and the duties of secretaries to directorates. Upon amendment to its predecessor published on August 9, 1996, the new measures, made up of 38 articles in seven chapters, comb and summarize the specific requirements for secretaries to directorates in terms of qualifications for position taking, filing of qualifications, duties, training and performance evaluation while keeping consistent with the existing stock listing rules and relevant regulations of the China Securities Regulatory Commission. The new measures are designed to facilitate the observance of listed companies and secretaries to directorates in practice. Specifically, the amended measures reiterate that secretaries to directorates are senior management staff of listed companies and should conduct due diligence towards listed companies and directorates. Concerning the current inconsistency between duties and powers of secretaries to directorates in some listed companies, to ensure that secretaries to directorates effectively perform their duties, the new measures emphasize the specific measures taken to secure the duty performance of secretaries to directorates. First of all, listed companies are required to amend the work systems of secretaries to directorates and establish the business departments managed by secretaries to directorates within one month after the release of the amended SSE measures for further clarification of the status of senior management staff and the duties of secretaries to directorates. In the second place, with an eye to ensure the rights to know of secretaries to directorates on companies' significant events, the new measures further state that secretaries to directorates are entitled to attend work meetings of general managers of listed companies apart from directorate meetings, board of supervisors meetings and shareholders' meetings. Finally, the conditions for appointment and dismissal of secretaries to directorates are defined to avoid listed companies' dismissal of secretaries to directorates at discretion. Industry insiders hold that the system of secretary to directorate, a system born with the growth of China's capital market, should develop continuously. Whether secretaries to directorates can perform their duties efficiently or not is of remarkable significance to the improvement of governance of listed companies and their growth on capital markets. It is learnt that the SSE would take this opportunity to tighten such work as review of qualifications for position taking, supervision over duty performance, training and performance evaluation of listed companies' secretaries to directorates to urge their due diligence and improve listed companies' governance and standardized operation, thus protecting investors' interests.

Zhou: Boost Blue-chip Market Construction
16 Apr 2011
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) would step up blue-chip market construction by both fostering new blue chips and improving existing ones as Shanghai securities market has gained momentum for two decades since its birth, especially this year, the best time for assets securitization, SSE Vice President Zhou Qinye said in his keynote speech at the "Forum on Shanghai Multi-layer Blue-chip Market Construction" on April 15. From SSE 50 to SSE 380 "After 20 years' growth, especially the recent five years after the launch of equity division reform, Shanghai blue-chip market gradually comes into being." Zhou said. As of April 14, 2011, the SSE had boasted 905 listed companies with the market capitalization of RMB19.8 trillion (The average market capitalization of a single company is over RMB20 billion) from 834 with that of RMB2.3 trillion before equity division reform. However, there is a big difference in the market capitalization of listed companies. At present, 32% (or 293) companies boast market capitalization of over RMB10 billion and their market value accounts for 85.6% of the total of SSE-listed companies. In contrast, 19% (or 171) companies have market capitalization of less than RMB3 billion and their market value is only 1.7% of the total. The remaining 441 companies with market capitalization between RMB3 billion and RMB10 billion account for 12.7% of the total market value. To mirror the characteristic of its blue-chip market, the SSE created in succession "SSE 50", "SSE 180" and "SSE 380" indices. Different from the "SSE 50" reflecting mega caps, the "SSE 180" traces listed companies with market capitalization of over RMB10 billion. In 2010, the SSE introduced the "SSE 380", which is made up of 380 "emerging blue-chip" firms handpicked from 725 companies excluding those in "SSE 180", to portray the market in an all-around manner. So far, the market capitalization and trading volume of "SSE 380" have hit 18% and 33%, respectively. Prominent Trend in Blue-chip Market This Year Since the beginning of 2011, the trend in blue-chip market has become increasingly noticeable. According to the recent disclosure of listed companies' annual reports, the overall performance of SSE-listed blue-chip firms in the whole year of 2010 was beyond expectations. By April 14, 631 out of a total of 905 SSE-listed companies, specifically 42 out of SSE 50 index constituent companies, 136 out of SSE 180 index constituent companies and 284 out of SSE 380 index constituent companies, had disclosed their annual reports. The 42 out of SSE 50 index constituent companies realized the total net profit of RMB1,090.3 billion, a year-on-year jump of 35%. Back in 2009, the nearly 900 SSE-listed companies created the net profit of over RMB80 billion. The 136 out of SSE 180 index constituent companies and the 284 out of SSE 380 index constituent companies saw net profits of about RMB1.2 trillion and RMB84.8 billion, or 38% and 37% increases year on year, respectively. The above performances were all beyond the expectations of the market. The uprising performances of blue chips bring the valuation upwards, which in turn drives the P/E ratio of the whole SSE market. Zhou stressed that the P/E ratio of SSE Composite Index at the end of 2010 was 17.4, while by April 14, 2011, it had risen to 18. Similarly, the P/E ratios of SSE 50 and SSE 180 climbed from 13 and 14.8 to 13.5 and 15, respectively, thus boosting the overall increase in SSE-listed companies' P/E ratios. Meanwhile, as of April 14, 2011, the market capitalization proportions of SSE 50, SSE 180 and SSE 380 had all witnessed significant improvement. Besides, the inflow and outflow of institutional investors' capital also embodied the features of blue-chip market this year. From January 1 to April 14, 2011, the top five industries attracting institutional investors' capital were banking, building materials, oil and coal, securities and chemicals, while the industry of pharmaceutical biology, a magnet for net capital inflow in the first half of 2010, faced capital outflow and great capital outflow also occurred in such sectors as machinery, insurance, commercial trade and transport equipment. "All these data send a strong signal of a robust blue-chip market. The stronger get stronger and the weak get weaker." Zhou summed up. Best Time for Assets Securitization "In the next stage, the SSE will promote the blue-chip market construction by both fostering new blue chips and improving existing ones." Zhou explained that the SSE hopes that an array of backbone enterprises may go listed on SSE 50, SSE 180 and SSE 380 and grow from emerging blue chips to real ones. On the other hand, it is also crucial to improve the performances of existing ones. Due to the big difference on the current market, there is a lot of work to do in boosting the growth of the existing 171 blue chips with market capitalization of less than RMB3 billion. Restricted by the size of then capital market, some enterprises went listed with a small portion of its assets, thus leaving many problems in horizontal competition and connected transaction. "The SSE is also facing the issue of structural improvement, that is how to help the 1/5 companies lagging behind catch up. If all these listed companies realize the market capitalization of over RMB10 billion, the ranking of the SSE in terms of total market capitalization would be better than the sixth in the world." Now is the best time for assets securitization, Zhou added. After the decline from the record high of 6,214 points of SSE Composite Index on October 16, 2007 and till the end of 2007, the total market capitalization of SSE-listed companies stood at nearly RMB28 trillion, with the average stock price of RMB19.04 per share, the earning per share of each company of RMB0.42, the average P/E ratio of nearly 42, the average net asset value per share of RMB2.72 and the P/B ratio of 7. By April 14, 2011, the average stock price of SSE-listed companies had been RMB8.91 per share, with the P/E ratio of 18 and the P/B ratio of about 2.8. Due to the current advantages in average stock price and P/B ratio, enterprises intending to make assets securitization may obtain more shares of listed companies according to market price after assets appreciation upon appraisal. "Even though now is not the best timing, it is at least the second best one." Zhou concluded that after listing, enterprises could realize the best value for shareholders through effective and rational usage of capital operation platform. For those poorly-run ones, return on net assets could also be shared after transfer of controlling rights and introduction of well-established firms. Therefore, the SSE would actively boost blue-chip market construction by both fostering new blue chips and improving existing ones.

SSE Resource 50 Index,SSE Industry Chain Indices,CSI Mega-Cap Index to be launched
15 Apr 2011
To further enhance the SSE and CSI index family as well as to provide new analysis tool and underlying instrument for investors, SSE Resource 50 Index、SSE Industry Chain Indices、CSI Mega-Cap Index are to be launched on May 10 2011 by SSE and CSI. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. April 15th , 2011

SSE Resource 50 Index,SSE Industry Chain Indices,CSI Mega-Cap Index to be launched
15 Apr 2011
To further enhance the SSE and CSI index family as well as to provide new analysis tool and underlying instrument for investors, SSE Resource 50 Index、SSE Industry Chain Indices、CSI Mega-Cap Index are to be launched on May 10 2011 by SSE and CSI. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. April 15th , 2011

Xu: Build Desirable Growth, Innovation Environment for Fund Industry
11 Apr 2011
The further development of Chinese fund industry, which is facing growth bottleneck, calls for improved competitiveness in the process of internationalization, innovation of legal systems and products sales channels, and enhanced supervision and credibility of regulation, said Vice President Xu Ming of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) at the "SSE - 1st Global Summit on Fund". In the analysis, at the summit, of the growth bottleneck and deep-seated problems the securities investment fund industry is facing, Xu said that the following four aspects should be paid special attention to: first of all, despite the increasing number of fund management firms and funds, the total size of funds under management stayed stagnant for years and won't see a qualitative leap in the short term. Secondly, the evident homogeneous competition leads to difficulty in innovation of fund products. Thirdly, the undiversified funds sales channel results in a high cost as sales agents share management fees with fund management firms while obtaining the subscription fees they deserve. Finally, the high turnover of management talents of public funds impaired the image and professional wealth management capability of public funds to some extent. In this context, Xu believes that fiercer competition in the backdrop of internationalization, lack of drive for industry innovation, neglect of regulation and reliance on control, confusing relations between administrative management and industry governance are the main reasons. And the sustainable and healthy future development of fund industry calls for a favorable environment beneficial to further opening-up, growth and innovation. "The fund industry needs to enhance its competitiveness in the process of internationalization. In the mainstream industry trend of international competition, public securities investment funds can't afford to fall behind. Therefore, domestic fund firms should follow the trend and initiate such investment and wealth management businesses as domestic and foreign private funds and public funds by way of taking stake in other institutions." As an increasing number of joint venture fund management firms are established and more domestic enterprises set up subsidiaries in Hong Kong in recent years, China's securities investment fund industry is stepping up its internationalization pace. However, Xu holds that the degree and speed of internationalization of securities investment funds don't live up to expectations as professional assets management institutions including international hedge funds boast a faster pace in entry into domestic market. Besides, Xu thinks that the fund industry needs to strengthen its attractiveness in the process of continuous innovation and competition for innovative products, sales channels and legal systems. "Under the current fierce competition atmosphere in the assets management market, Chinese fund industry's institutional strength has been learnt thoroughly by competitors. Due to the disappearance of previous advantage in channels, our products may be surpassed by new wealth management tools." In addition, Xu said that strengthened supervision over fund industry is expected for improved credibility of regulation. In the improvement of effective supervision over fund industry, the following three aspects of relations should be dealt with properly. Firstly, the relations between loosing control and realizing effective supervision. "Supervision means establishing the rules of the game and punishing the violators for strict observation of those rules, while control means fulfilling the basic function of resources allocation through the power of administration, with a typical example being the strict examination and approval for market entry and business permission." Xu said that with the gradual growth and perfection of China's fund market, relaxing control, tightening supervision and adopting differentiated multi-layer supervision measures, especially for innovative products and procedures of examination and approval, would be vital to the sound development of fund industry. Secondly, the relations between strict supervision and proper supervision. He holds that in the future amendment to fund laws, before the inclusion of private funds into supervision scope, the principle of proper supervision should be established, whereby the experience from public funds is learnt yet the legal status of private funds is not easily fixed with the mode used in public funds. Finally, in the current fund supervision, the core status of regulator in securities market system is defined in laws. However, due to the complexity, technique and hugeness of funds, the governmental supervision should also include governance management and industry self-regulation. In Xu's eyes, stock exchanges, the organizer and administrator of securities trading, also bear the duties of market governance, including propelling on-floor products innovation and standardization, formulating listing criterions, regulating funds listing, monitoring legitimacy and compliance of investors' trading behaviors on real-time basis, and discovering and deterring violations in time.

Constituent Periodical Review of SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index
30 Mar 2011
Constituent Periodical Review of SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index   (To be effective as of Apr 1st 2011) Deletions Additions Bond code Bond shortened name Bond code Bond shortened name 122021 09广汇债 122012 08保利债 122954 09武进债 122883 10楚雄债 122967 09闽漳龙 122927 09海航债 122996 08常城建 122984 09六城投 126005 07武钢债 126002 06中化债     Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 2011-3-29

Notice of Relevant Issues Regarding Listed Commercial Banks' Renting of Members' Trading Units for Bonds Trading
29 Mar 2011
All member units and listed commercial banks, To implement the "Notice of Relevant Issues Regarding Listed Commercial Banks' Bonds Trading at Stock Exchanges" (Zheng Jian Fa [2010] No. 91) jointly issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the People's Bank of China and the China Banking Regulatory Commission, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby notifies relevant issues of listed commercial banks' renting of participants business units (PBUs) for bonds trading according to relevant stipulations in the "SSE Member Management Rules" and the "SSE Detailed Implementation Rules for PBUs" as follows: I. Listed commercial banks should rent PBUs from SSE members before participating in the SSE bond market. II. The PBUs rented by listed commercial banks from SSE members can only be used for spot trading of such bond varieties as treasury bonds, local treasury bonds, corporate bonds, enterprise bonds and corporate bonds out of the convertible bonds of discrete transaction as well as trading of other SSE recognized securities, unless otherwise regulated by relevant authorities. Listed commercial banks should neither rent to others the PBUs they rent nor act as trading agents for other institutions or individuals. Listed commercial banks should take effective technical measures to control the trading authority of the rented PBUs. III. Listed commercial banks should rent the PBUs through the membership business system in the members' area of the SSE website and submit the following application materials online: (1) application form; (2) documents of business qualifications; (3) letter of commitment on usage of PBUs（attachment）; (4) agreement on PBU renting; and (5) other documents required by the SSE. In case of terminating the renting of PBUs, listed commercial banks and SSE members should handle the renting termination procedures according to the SSE PBUs management business process. IV. In case of renting PBUs to listed commercial banks, SSE members should ensure the security of relevant information in the PBUs rented to listed commercial banks. Without permission of the SSE, SSE members should not acquire any trading data or other information in the rented PBUs in any way. V. Listed commercial banks, which rent the PBUs, should establish the internal management system, standardize the operational process, prevent the business risks and bear the legal liabilities resulting from the securities businesses conducted in the rented PBUs. VI. During the renting period, SSE members and listed commercial banks should observe relevant laws, regulations, rules, regulatory documents and the SSE business rules. VII. The SSE's charges for the rented PBUs are subject to relevant SSE rules. The fees resulting from PBUs renting between SSE members and listed commercial banks should be fixed by both sides upon negotiation. VIII. The SSE will report the violations against state laws, regulations and relevant rules by listed commercial banks in their bonds trading activities to the CSRC or other authorities, and impose disciplinary measures according to relevant regulations on membership management. IX. The notice, subject to the explanations of the SSE, should be put into force as of the promulgation day. Shanghai Stock Exchange March 24, 2011

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2011 Tomb Sweeping Day
25 Mar 2011
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for 2011 Tomb Sweeping Day according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2011" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2010] No. 30). The SSE will close from April 3 (Sunday) to April 5 (Tuesday) and open for trading on April 6 (Wednesday). It will also close on the weekend on April 2 (Saturday). Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange March 25, 2011

SSE Urges Members to Better Investor Protection
15 Mar 2011
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently announced the result of self-examination and visiting research on its members' investor education efforts, which aims to urge its member units to earnestly implement relevant business requirements and share the experience and practical measures of investor education. Respect for and realization of investors' legitimate rights and interests, including the right to know and the right to choose, are directly related to the implementation of relevant requirements of regulators as well as the efforts in investor suitability management, investor education and customer service by the securities companies and their business departments, which are the backbone of the front-line investor education efforts. The self-examination and visiting research on investor education initiated by the SSE is designed to strengthen the management over and standardize the operation of its members for better investor protection. On the one hand, members of the SSE were urged to well perform their duties to improve investor education and service quality. On the other hand, qualified investors cultivation was speeded up by exploring effective investor education modes and measures, enhancing working experience summarization and communication, and pooling industry-wide efforts.  Overall, the vast majority of members carried out the relevant requirements of regulators and self-regulatory organizations for investor education and achieved some success. For instance, the "headquarters – business departments" two-tier investor education mechanism has been established, with relevant systems, personnel and funds in place, diversified forms and methods of investor education, and closer combination with customer service. Some members, learning from their practices in the past years, boasted a certain valuable experience and features based on their own advantages and customer characteristics. For example, SWS and China Merchants Securities integrated investor education with customer service and marketing and expanded its coverage of investor education through an array of investor education activities with nationwide influence. Changjiang Securities, attaching importance to front-line investor cultivation, improved its investor education and service quality by adopting the "seeder-type" internal management mode. Guosen Securities innovatively introduced the bidding mechanism for the implementation scheme of investor education and strengthened the uniform deployment, thus achieving a desirable investor education result. However, the SSE caught sight of some problems in the current front-line investor education work through its field research, including imbalance in investor education and service resources, difficulty in education and service of off-site customers, and inadequate implementation of investor suitability management system. With an eye on that, the SSE will continue to urge securities firms to pay more attention to balanced input in investor education by basing itself on its function, leveraging the industry advantage and intensifying the management over its members. Meanwhile, it will highlight resources integration and diversify network resources for investor education to provide better guidance to members' education and service of off-site investors and drive the improvement of investor education system and incentive system. All this will propel SSE members to increase their efforts in investor education, service and protection.

SSE Wealth Mid-Small Index to Debut
11 Mar 2011
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently announced the official release of SSE Wealth Mid-Small Index (hereinafter referred to as SSE Wealth Mid-Small) on April 6, 2011. The new index is the second one of the "Wealth Series" indices (The first one is CSI Wealth Large Cap Index launched on September 25, 2009) developed by CSI upon request of MANULIFE TEDA Fund Management Co., Ltd. (MANULIFE TEDA). Upholding the concept of "wealth", it handpicks 200 SSE-listed small- and mid-cap companies with the fastest wealth growth rate as its constituents. In terms of weight method, it innovatively takes the financial indicators measuring wealth growth as the basis for weight distribution. In other words, the faster the wealth growth is, the bigger the weight for an individual stock will be, which well reflects the philosophy of investing in the firms with the fastest wealth growth. It is also learnt that MANULIFE TEDA is planning the development of ETF products based on the new index. SSE Wealth Mid-Small (whose index code is 000091) adopts December 31, 2004 as its base day and 1,000 points as its base point. Investors can keep themselves informed of the real-time index quotes through the securities quotes terminals. For compilation method and detailed materials of SSE Wealth Mid-Small, please refer to the websites of the SSE (www.sse.com.cn) and CSI (www.csindex.com.cn).

Announcement on Release of SSE Wealth Mid-Small Index
11 Mar 2011
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. will officially launch SSE Wealth Mid-Small Index on April 6, 2011. The new index selects 200 SSE-listed small- and mid-cap companies with the fastest wealth growth rate as its constituents and makes the weight distribution of constituents match with their wealth growth. The base day of the index is December 31, 2004, while the base point is 1,000 points. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. March 11, 2011

50 Companies per Year to List on SSE in Next 5 Years
10 Mar 2011
"There is no specific timetable for the launch of the International Board, but the regulations on issuance, trading, listing and settlement for the Board are being specified. And treasury bonds are expected to see on the issuance list of the exchange," said Governor Geng Liang of the Shanghai Stock Exchange. "The SSE will attract and encourage more enterprises to go public during the '12th Five-year Plan' period. In the next 5 years, 50 additional companies will be listed on the Shanghai market on an annual basis. Meanwhile, vigorous efforts will be made to develop the bonds market, with an aim to issue some treasury bonds through the exchange," said Geng Liang, SSE Governor and Member of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, in an interview with the Shanghai Securities News yesterday. As to the preparatory work for the International Board, Geng said the regulations on issuance, trading, listing and settlement, with the drafts worked out already, were being refined. The technology for the exchange's operation is almost in place. The regulatory issues, especially the rules on and supervision over information disclosure, remain to be solved after careful study. Currently, there is no schedule for the launch of the Board or list of the companies to be listed in the first batch. When asked "what will the exchange do to uplift the proportion of direct financing in a substantial way", Geng said that as it is one of the major responsibilities for the capital market and the exchange to elevate the direct financing proportion, the SSE would promote and implement the work in terms of stock financing and bonds financing. According to Geng, in terms of stock financing, the SSE will further attract and bolster companies to go public. Preliminary estimate shows that the SSE will welcome 50 new listed companies each year in half a decade. During the "11th Five-year Plan" period, the peak time for companies to list on the SSE is year 2010, when a total of 26 companies debuted on the exchange. As for bonds financing, Geng said that the SEE would launch three measures. First, favorable conditions will be created to invite listed commercial banks to return to the exchange's bonds market. "So far, the problem has been basically solved, as the 16 commercial banks already going public will gradually come back to the market." Second, the exchange is vigorously coordinating with relevant departments, with a plan to issue part of the treasury bonds to investors directly through the exchange market. Third, the issuance amount of corporate bonds will be scaled up in the "12th Five-year Plan" period, given the 100 newly-listed bonds and RMB135 billion raised funds on the exchange's bonds market last year. Geng also said that in addition to market expansion, endeavors should also be made to propel listed companies to do a better job in dividend distribution. "Both the exchange and regulatory bodies should take measures to spark and urge listed companies to pay dividends."

SSE Issues "Implementation Guide to Listed Companies' Connected Transactions"
08 Mar 2011
Tougher Requirements for Disclosure and Decision-making Processes of Listed Companies' Significant Connected Transactions The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) published the "SSE Implementation Guide to Connected Transactions of Listed Companies" today for further standardization of listed companies' connected transactions. Based on a collection of provisions on connected transactions in existing rules, the Guide details the requirements for decision-making and disclosure processes of listed companies' connected transactions with a view to a more comprehensive supervision in the backdrop of a partially looser restriction. Concerning the significant connected transactions of listed companies' assets purchases at a high premium (of over 100%) from related parties, the Guide spells out stricter requirements for disclosure and decision-making processes.  Generally speaking, the Guide is featured by four characteristics. First of all, it is a collection of provisions on connected transactions stipulated in existing rules. At present, the connected transactions disclosed in listed companies' special announcements are subject to the "SSE Stock Listing Rules", while those disclosed in non-financial and financial parts of periodic reports are pursuant to the "Rules No. 2 on Content and Format of Information Disclosure by Companies Publicly Issuing Securities -- Content and Format of Annual Reports" and the "Accounting Standard for Business Enterprises No. 36 -- Related Party Disclosure", respectively. By gathering the above stipulations related to connected transactions, the Guide provides listed companies with "one-stop" guidance to fulfillment of decision-making process and disclosure obligation for connected transactions. In the second place, it details processes. Based on a series of existing rules, the Guide elaborates on the disclosure and decision-making processes. Take the disclosure of pricing in listed companies' related transactions for example. The Guide suggests various ways of pricing by using, for reference, tax authority's relevant stipulations on pricing in connected transactions. Furthermore, it nails down the online filing system of information of listed companies' related parties required by the listing rules, and secures, both institutionally and technically, the accountability and traceability in supervision and its desirable implementation with the regular update requirement. Thirdly, it lifts restrictions a little bit. To conform to the trend of regulatory rules convergence, the Guide, learning from relevant stipulations on connected transactions in the listing rules of the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Ltd. (SEHK), clarifies the conditions for exemption in connected transactions with an aim to a lower supervision cost. To be specific, under the following four conditions, companies can apply to the bourse for exempting from discussion and disclosure of the transactions in a way that the connected transactions are required. First, the pricing in the daily connected transaction is pursuant to the state regulations. Second, a natural person holds the position of independent director at the listed company and other legal entity and organization concurrently. Third, the interest rate of the financial assistance provided by related party for the listed company is not higher than the benchmark interest rate of loan stipulated by the People's Bank of China and the listed company provides no mortgage or guarantee for the assistance. Fourth, the transaction involves a state secret, or a business secret which is recognized by the bourse and whose disclosure would severely jeopardize the listed company's interests. Finally, it indicates a tougher supervision. Based on summarization of lessens learnt from practical supervision, the Guide regularizes the experience and expects to perfect the existing rules and strengthen the regulatory effectiveness. Specifically, regarding the significant connected transactions of listed companies' assets purchase at a high premium (of over 100%) from related parties, the Guide, referring to relevant regulations on assets reorganization, tightens the requirements for disclosure and decision-making processes, including provision of online voting and other conveniences for holders of floating shares; provision of profit prediction report on target assets in connected transaction; disclosure of the discrepancy between the actual profit and the predicted one as well as the special audit opinion from the accountant and establishment with related party of the clause of compensation for performance, if the assets a listed company intends to acquire are appraised and priced with the discounted cash flow technique; and explicit comment at the shareholders' meeting by connected transaction control committee or audit committee.  Besides, it fills the blind spots in regulatory rules by defining the scope of related parties and the types of connected transactions. In terms of the scope of related parties, with an eye on the phenomenon that the major business of some listed company is undertaken by its holding subsidiary, the Guide, learning from relevant stipulations in the SEHK listing rules, includes the shareholders holding over 10% equity of the holding subsidiary which has an importance influence on the listed company as the related parties. As for the types of connected transactions, some listed companies transfer, in a disguise form, improper benefits to their related parties through such transactions as provision of financial assistance or guarantee for the company, in which it and its related party jointly invest, in a proportion higher than its shareholding or investment one, or abjuration of the right of capital increase according to shareholding proportion or the preemptive right when the company, in which it and its related party jointly invest, increases the capital. The Guide explicitly lists the above transactions as related transactions. It is also said in the Guide that the duties of control and daily management of listed companies' connected transactions shall be assumed by the audit committee or the connected transaction control committee under the directorate, which shall be entitled to review and comment on the daily management of information about related parties and the significant connected transactions. The introduction of the Guide, a lighthouse for disclosure and decision-making processes in the standardization of listed companies' connected transactions, benefits transparency in connected transactions to some extent, and curbs and prevents the improper ones, thus improving listed companies' corporate governance and quality, according to industry insiders.

SSE Standardizes Online Voting for Better Shareholders Protection
25 Feb 2011
The amended "SSE Detailed Rules for Online Voting at Shareholders' Meetings of Listed Companies" is published today. To further standardize the online voting at shareholders' meetings of listed companies, facilitate the exercise of voting rights of listed companies' shareholders, and protect the legitimate rights and interests of investors, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) today published the newly amended "SSE Details Rules for Online Voting at Shareholders' Meetings of Listed Companies". Revised from its predecessor promulgated on September 8, 2006, the new one includes rules for online voting for margin trading and securities lending and adds specific stipulations on facilitating online voting of listed companies and investors. In this revision, the SSE combed and consolidated the previous provisions on online voting, summed up the requirements of providing online voting option by listed companies for their shareholders made in other relevant regulations, standardized the voting mode for margin trading and securities lending, and put forward the new measures for issues popping up in the implementation of the original rules. First of all, the amended rules, divided into five chapters, smooth out the internal logic among the clauses for easier reading and understanding of listed companies and investors. The separately listed "Process of Online Voting at Shareholders' Meetings for Shareholders of Listed Companies" helps investors complete the online voting easily and quickly. In the second place, to encourage and standardize the provision of online voting option by listed companies for their shareholders, the new rules summarized the stipulations on provision of online voting option in several regulations of the China Securities Regulatory Commission and the bourse. The Article 3 clearly defines the eight circumstances under which the listed companies shall provide the online voting option for their shareholders at shareholders' meetings, thus making the compliance by listed companies and investors easier. Thirdly, relevant rules for online voting in margin trading and securities lending business are also incorporated. It is clearly stipulated that the "Split Voting" shall be adopted at the shareholders' meetings attended by QFIIs as well as securities companies conducting margin trading and securities lending business, in a bid to reflect the different opinions of the investors in margin trading and securities lending and the clients on the same proposal. Besides, to meet the practical needs, the revised rules add some special stipulations on facilitating the online voting by listed companies and investors. First, the special codes and short descriptions for online voting used in the SSE trading system are clarified. Second, the ways and channels for shareholders to inquire the voting results are fixed. Third, the rules of procedure after the cancellation of proposals for shareholders' meetings are increased. Finally, the civil rights and obligations due to the provision of relevant services by SSE InfoNet Ltd. are not compulsory. Parties concerned are allowed to make their own stipulations in relevant agreements. It is learnt that the SSE will take this opportunity to tighten its supervision over online voting at listed companies' shareholders' meetings and encourage and urge listed companies to arouse the enthusiasm of investors (especially small and medium sized investors) for exercising their voting rights at listed companies' shareholders' meetings through online voting. All this will contribute to the protection of investors' lawful rights and interests, the supervisory role of investors over listed companies, and the standardized operation and improved quality of listed companies.

SSE, BM&FBOVESPA Ink Cooperation Agreement
23 Feb 2011
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) officially signed the Memorandum of Understanding on closer cooperation with BM&FBOVESPA SA in Sao Paulo, Brazil on February 21 (Beijing Time). SSE President Zhang Yujun and CEO Edemir Pinto of BM&FBOVESPA signed the MoU on behalf of their respective bourses. Zhang said at the signing ceremony that the signing of the MoU on closer cooperation with BM&FBOVESPA by the SSE, which has always cherished communication and cooperation with exchanges all over the world and international exchange organizations, marked the establishment of long-standing and stable partnership between the two sides. It is learnt that the MoU covers cooperation in developing bonds products and trading facilities, information exchange, mechanism of high-level visits, regular exchange of personnel, regular joint research and special seminars on topics of mutual interest, etc.

Public Bidding Invitation for 22nd SSE Joint Research Plan
10 Feb 2011
Public Bidding Invitation for 22nd SSE Joint Research Plan (2011-02-10)   To boost the research, marketization and standardization of China's securities market, accelerate the market innovation and provide decision-making support for leadership, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has run 21 SSE Joint Research Plans. The plans aim to make full use of relevant domestic and foreign research resources, make intensive research on hot and frontier issues of China's securities market in a standardized, precise and pragmatic manner, improve market research, and promote exchange of excellent research results. All this is to provide independent, rational, high-level, and forward-looking policy suggestions and implementation schemes for the development of China's securities market.   To ensure the transparency and accessibility and enhance the quality and efficiency of the research plan, the SSE seeks bidders for research subjects from home and abroad.   Major research subjects of the 22nd SSE Joint Research Plan include: 1. ETF market mechanism optimization and control of operational risk; 2. Feasibility and design of stock options; 3. Effectiveness of information disclosure of listed companies; 4. Legal content and judicial adjudication criterion of performance of due diligence by directors of listed companies; 5. Asset securitization products development strategy; 6. Development of exchange’s corporate bonds market; 7. SSE index system development plan; 8. Monitoring system of systematic risk in capital market; 9. International comparison of evolution of functions of Securities Acts and perfection of China’s “Securities Law”; 10. New pattern of innovation and development of capital market as well as amendment and improvement of “Company Law”.   Institutional applicants can download the application forms at the SSE website (http://www.sse.com.cn). For details, please contact the SSE Research Center via telephone, fax, E-mail, etc. The deadline for bidding invitation is February 28.   Liaisons: Ms. Lu and Mr. Zhang Tel: 68800094, 68800095 Fax: 021-68813828 E-mail: expert1@sse.com.cn   Attachment: Application Form of SSE Joint Research Plan Subject   Shanghai Stock Exchange   February 11, 2011

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2011 Spring Festival
21 Jan 2011
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the Spring Festival of 2011 according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2011" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2010] No. 30) as follows: 1. The SSE will close from February 2 (Wednesday) to February 8 (Tuesday) and open for trading from February 9 (Wednesday) onwards. It will also close on the weekends on January 30 (Sunday) and February 12 (Saturday). 2. Relevant clearing issues will be carried out according to the arrangements of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. 3. To ensure the normal trading after the holiday, the SSE will conduct a linkage test towards its trading systems (including the block trading system and the comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities) from 9:30 to 12:00 on February 8, 2011 (Tuesday). Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange January 21, 2011

SSE, HKICS MOU Inked
11 Jan 2011
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the Hong Kong Institute of Chartered Secretaries (HKICS) in Shanghai yesterday, with an aim to better meet the demand of the increasingly developed securities market as well as jointly impel the professional growth of secretaries to directorate in China’s mainland. SSE Vice President Zhou Qinye and HKICS President April Chan attended the signing ceremony. The MOU initiative taken by the two sides as a strategic cooperation serves as a move to complement each other’s advantages to meet the trend of global regulatory cooperation by taking the status quo of corporate governance of China’s listed companies into consideration under the backdrop of building Shanghai into an international financial hub and increasing domestic and overseas listings of mainland companies. According to the MOU, the two sides will join hands to study and exchange governance and compliance rules for domestic and overseas secretaries to directorate or company secretaries in their listing businesses. As a strategic partner, HKICS will participate in the follow-up trainings for listed companies held by the SSE every year (including but not limited to trainings for secretaries to directorate and independent directors) to facilitate domestic secretaries’ understanding of governance practices and standards of international companies. In addition, the SSE and HKICS will jointly issue a research report on governance of mainland, Hong Kong and international companies on an annual basis, with an aim to strengthen exchange of practices of secretaries to directorate or company secretaries between mainland and Hong Kong. Furthermore, the SSE, to be introduced by HKICS as the guide for International Qualifying Scheme Examinations in China’s mainland, will assist HKICS in localizing the design and content of the Examinations, which will be prepared in Chinese to test the domestic secretaries to directorate on their knowledge of profession. From 1996 to 2000, the SSE and HKICS, by taking their respective advantages, jointly held a series of effective trainings for mainland directorate secretaries and senior executives of listed companies. The two sides have been maintaining close relationship and cooperation by regular visit, information communication and experience exchange. The MOU, under which the two sides can better use the resources, marks a strengthened strategic partnership between the two sides with more sustained and in-depth long-term cooperation in an all-round way.

Investor Education TV Series "Blue Dreams" to Be Premiered
07 Jan 2011
Investor education TV series "Blue Dreams" will be premiered on CBN Ningxia TV at 17:15 on January 9 (Sunday). The 50-episode large-scale TV documentary, produced by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) in collaboration with Xinhua News Agency Shanghai Branch, falls into eight chapters, namely Shanghai stock market, securities investment products, exchange traded funds (ETFs), stock issuing and listing, merger and acquisition, securities trading, securities service intermediaries and securities investment risk. The program, rich in valuable photo and video materials and probing into the ABCs of securities by unfolding and analyzing the typical cases and historical events on domestic and foreign securities markets and inviting professional reviews from over 100 experts, is a constructive attempt at optimizing ways and means as well as enriching forms and contents of investor education. The first three episodes "Origin: Far East International Financial Center", "Revival: Backbone of China's Capital Market" and "Pinnacle: World-class Blue-chip Market" will be aired at 17:15 on January 9, 16 and 23, respectively. In future, "Blue Dreams" will be played successively through other TV stations.

Notice of Temporarily No Adjustment to Underlying Securities Scope of Margin Trading, Securities Lending
31 Dec 2010
All member units, To fit for the growth of margin trading and securities lending business and market, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) decided not to synchronize the adjustment to the underlying securities scope of margin trading and securities lending with that to the constituents of the SSE 50 Index temporarily according to Article 24 of the "SSE Detailed Rules for Implementation of Pilot Margin Trading and Securities Lending". Shanghai Stock Exchange December 31, 2010

Geng: Promote Innovation for Blue-chip Market Construction
31 Dec 2010
To build the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) into a mature customized bourse for China's national conditions, renewed efforts are needed for building blue-chip market, developing bonds market, diversifying trading varieties and modes as well as strengthening infrastructure construction, SSE Governor Geng Liang said yesterday in Beijing at the "20th Anniversary Symposium of China's Capital Market". "Two decades ago when it was born in the historical backdrop of China's reform and opening up, the SSE had only eight stocks with RMB1.2 billion market capitalization, and merely RMB807 million trading volume in the first year after its opening. Thanks to 20 years' efforts, the SSE has evolved into a major exchange in the world, boasting over 890 stocks with RMB18.5 trillion market capitalization and RMB126 billion average daily trading volume." Geng said that with the ever-increasing market size, the SSE has seen a steady improvement in market quality and maturity. A style change from short-term to medium and long term investment is emerging in the market at present. The rising market capitalization of the shares held by over 50,000 institutional investors accounts for 74% of the total on the SSE. The turnover rate tumbles from 920% in 2007 to 190% in 2010. The proportion of medium and long term investors is on the rise from 53% in 2007 to 66% this year. Besides, with a sharp fall in volatility, the market stability is enhanced. To be specific, the number of trading days seeing over 2% price fluctuation in the main board is 13% of the total trading days in 2010, while in 2008 and 2009 these figures were 44% and 25%, respectively. Finally, the barometer role for national economy is looming increasingly obvious as the main indicators of the SSE-listed large-scale blue-chip enterprises, which cover all key industries of national economy, are mirroring the profile of the national economy. According to Geng, the soaring market capitalization of the SSE-listed stocks from RMB2.3 trillion in 2005 to RMB18.5 trillion in 2010 after the equity division reform lays a solid foundation for the growth of the SSE market. To ensure safe market operation and maintain market stability, the SSE boosted technical renovation in the past few years, keeping its safe operation rate at over 99.9%. Eyeing the development goal of a world-class blue-chip market, the SSE listed in the past five years 81 large-scale high-quality enterprises, with a total market capitalization of over RMB10 trillion. Furthermore, 134 SSE-listed companies underwent merger and acquisition, with RMB720 billion assets injected. At present, another 64 listed companies are under significant reorganization. All this contributes to a solid foundation for developing the SSE blue-chip market. In the past two decades, the SSE consistently formulated and perfected self-regulatory business rules, and created a self-regulatory mechanism with the SSE Articles of Association as the main body, the listing rules, trading rules and membership management rules as the supporting one, and the detailed business implementation rules as the supplementation. At present, the SSE has over 200 valid business rules, forming an integral part of the legal system of the capital market. In terms of front-line supervision, the SSE tightened its crackdown on market manipulation, insider dealing and rat trading. In 2009, the SSE reported 53 clues for various illegal trading, issued 557 supervisory attention letters and investigated 590 abnormal transactions. In Geng's opinion, the SSE will, in the days to come, stress the following five aspects of work in a bid to build itself into a mature bourse tailor-made for China's national conditions. First of all, the cornerstone of a multi-layer capital market will be consolidated by giving birth to a blue-chip market. In the second place, priority will be given to developing the bonds market for a bigger proportion of direct financing. Thirdly, market innovation will be encouraged for diversified trading varieties and modes. Fourthly, infrastructure construction will be furthered to secure safe operation. Finally, a learning bourse will be built to reinforce personnel training.

Constituent Periodical Review of SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index
28 Dec 2010
Constituent Periodical Review of SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index     (To be effective as of Jan 4th 2011) Deletions Additions Bond code Bond shortened name Bond code Bond shortened name 122012 08保利债 122932 09宜城债 122944 09株城投 122936 09鹤城投 122990 08锡公用 122937 10辽源债 126001 06马钢债 126008 08上汽债     Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co Ltd 2010-12-28

SSE Holiday Schedule for 2011
27 Dec 2010
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces holiday schedule for 2011 according to the "Notice of Arrangements concerning Market Closing and Public Holidays in 2011" of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (No. [2010] 128 by CSRC): 1. Arrangements of market closing (1) New Year's Day: The Exchange will close from January 1, 2011(Saturday) to January 3, 2011(Monday) and open for trading on January 4, 2011(Tuesday). (2) Spring Festival: The Exchange will close from February 2(Wednesday), to February 8, 2011(Tuesday) and open for trading on February 9(Wednesday). It will also close on the weekends on January 30(Sunday), and February 12, 2011(Saturday). (3) Tomb Sweeping Day: The Exchange will close from April 3(Sunday), to April 5 2011(Tuesday) and open for trading on April 6, 2011(Wednesday). It will also close on the weekend on April 2, 2011(Saturday). (4) Labor Day: The Exchange will close from April 30(Saturday) to May 2, 2011 (Monday) and open for trading on May 3(Tuesday). (5) Dragon Boat Festival: The Exchange will close from June 4(Saturday) to June 6, 2011(Monday) and will open for trading on June 7, 2011(Tuesday). (6) Mid-Autumn Festival: The Exchange will close from September 10(Saturday) to September 12, 2011(Monday) and open for trading on September 13, 2011(Tuesday). (7) National Day: The Exchange will close from October 1(Saturday) to October 7, 2011(Friday) and open for trading on October 10, 2011(Monday). It will also close on the weekends on October 8(Saturday) and October 9, 2011(Sunday). 2. Relevant clearing issues will be carried out according to the arrangements of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. 3. Issues for testing in Spring Festival and National Day are subject to further notice. Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. December 27, 2010

SSE Completes Preparatory Work for Int'l Board
20 Dec 2010
"The SSE has basically concluded its preparatory work on the business rules and technologies concerning listing and trading on the International Board for propelling the construction of the International Board by active and in-depth study on information disclosure, continuous supervision, cross-border law enforcement, investor protection and other major issues, with an aim to create favorable conditions for launching the International Board," said Governor Geng Liang of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) on December 18 at the "9th China Cooperate Governance Forum" held by the exchange. Geng also summed up at the meeting the development of the exchange in the past 20 years. Total stock market capitalization on the SSE reaches RMB18.5 trillion. Geng said that the SSE had initially formed a blue-chip market structure through its two decades' efforts. So far, a total of 892 companies are listed on the exchange, with a total stock market capitalization of RMB18.5 trillion and a daily turnover of RMB126 billion. "Thanks to the rapidly growing market scale, the SSE has held an increasingly important position on the international securities market. The SSE, developed into the biggest emerging market in the world, is now one of the major exchanges worldwide," said Geng, "The exchange has attracted a large number of large-scale and high-quality enterprises dominating in the national economy to go public. Besides, an array of listed companies has seen rapid growth and optimization through merger, acquisition, restructuring and overall listing. The blue-chip structure of the exchange has basically taken shape." Statistics show that currently, 2, 25 and 245 listed companies boast the total market capitalization of over RMB1 trillion, between RMB100 billion and RMB1 trillion and between RMB10 billion and RMB100 billion, respectively. These 280 or so companies are the core of the blue-chip structure of the exchange. In the meanwhile, a number of medium-sized listed companies are growing in a sustainable way through adjustment to structure, shift in development mode and maintenance of growth. At present, 42 domestic companies are among the Fortune Global 500, among which 33 are listed on the SSE. Geng also said that the SSE had always regarded corporate governance improvement as the important link in building the blue-chip market in the past 20 years. The SSE has strengthened supervision over connected transactions and stock trading of controlling shareholders, directors, supervisors and senior management. Last year, the SSE examined more than 40,000 reports of listed companies in various categories, implemented more than 4,500 times of special trading suspension, issued more than 2,300 regulatory letters, conducted 3 all-round inspections over illegal trading of directors, supervisors and senior executives, and disposed of illegal trading for 55 person times. Efforts should be made to propel the construction of blue-chip market. Looking into the future, Geng said that four tasks should be done well to impel the construction of the blue-chip market. Firstly, corporate governance of listed companies should be perfected in an all-round way. The SSE will continuously urge listed companies to improve the quality of their boards of directors and information disclosure, perfect their mechanisms of internal operation and investor protection, fully perform their social responsibilities and adopt best practices of corporate governance, thus constantly enhancing the appeal of China's capital market and its competitiveness in the international arena. Secondly, endeavors should be made to promote large and medium-sized high-quality enterprises to go public through restructuring. Presently, the SSE boasts 280 large and medium-sized enterprise, or 30% of the total listed companies, with the total market capitalization of over RMB10 billion. So far, many a large and medium-sized high-quality enterprise, industry leader and backbone enterprise have not completed restructuring. The SSE will, in the next step, provide comprehensive services for the restructuring and listing of large and medium-sized enterprises in such sectors as energy, military industry, culture, railway and nuclear power. Thirdly, reorganization, merge and acquisition of listed companies will be continuously promoted. In this regard, the SSE will further impel the task by improving the quality and efficiency of reorganization, merge and acquisition, and encourage controlling shareholders to inject high-quality assets and projects into listed companies, with an aim to promote overall listing of enterprises and foster more optimized and competitive listed companies. Fourthly, vigorous efforts should be made to pace up the construction of the International Board. Both domestic and overseas listed companies should be included in the scope of blue chips. The SSE has in the recent years spared no efforts to turn itself into a blue-chip market with international influence by studying and propelling the International Board construction. So far, the SSE has finished the preparatory work on the business rules and technologies concerning listing and trading on the International Board. Through an in-depth study on the information disclosure, continuous supervision, cross-border law enforcement, investor protection and other major issues, the SSE has striven to create every condition for launching the International Board.

Notice of Publishing Appraisal Results of Special Awards of Corporate Governance in 2010
20 Dec 2010
All listed companies, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently conducted an appraisal of special awards of corporate governance of listed companies in 2010, with an aim to encourage the SSE-listed companies to grow bigger and stronger by improving their quality and corporate governance. The three special awards include "Award of Board of Directors of Listed Companies in 2010", "Award of Information Disclosure of Listed Companies in 2010" and "Award of Excellent Independent Directors of Listed Companies in 2010". Upon voluntary application, material verification, preliminary selection of the appraisal group, comments by the expert committee and the approval of the presidents' office meeting, ten establishments (or individuals) winners and another ten establishments (or individuals) nominees for each award are finalized after the appraisal. The appraisal results are published to make the award-winning establishments and individuals as models to urge listed companies to strengthen their corporate governance awareness. All award-winning listed companies are encouraged to commend and award their departments or individuals making outstanding contributions to the appraisal. All listed companies are required to stick to the scientific outlook on development, learn from the good experience of the award-winning establishments (or individuals), continuously improve their governance structure, strive to be the first and the best, and make full use of the capital market to grow bigger and stronger, thus promoting the all-round, coordinated and sustainable development of China's capital market. Shanghai Stock Exchange December 17, 2010

SSE InfoNet Launches Voting Services for Margin Trading, Securities Lending
17 Dec 2010
The opinion collection system and the securities companies voting system enable the "one-stop" services from solicitation of clients' opinions to expression of opinions, which not only provide a safe and accessible new channel for securities companies to exercise rights over securities on behalf their clients but also carve out a new service field. Through the opinion collection system, investors of margin trading and securities lending from all over the country can express their voting opinions on the proposals of listed companies' Shareholders' Meetings easily on the Internet. After the securities companies apply for the usage of the opinion collection system, their clients of margin trading and securities lending whose shareholder's A share accounts are activated can log on to the system on the trading day prior to the convening day of the Shareholders' Meeting to express their voting opinions on the proposals one by one. After the closing of the opinion collection, the valid votes submitted by the clients through the system will be handed over to their securities companies, which will exercise the rights on behalf of their clients of margin trading and securities lending on the convening day of the Shareholders' Meeting. The securities companies voting system saves the securities companies from dispatching staff to attend listed companies' Shareholders' Meetings held at different places. With the system, securities companies can exercise the rights over the issuers on behalf of the investors of margin trading and securities lending by submitting the collected voting opinions of clients online to the listed companies on the very day of Shareholders' Meetings. The above two systems has gone live and started soft operation since September 2010. The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) also released relevant notices and commenced amending detailed implementation rules to secure the success of the business institutionally. By far, eight out of the eleven pilot securities companies for margin trading and securities lending of the first two batches have signed the agreements on the usage of the systems with SSE InfoNet. Another eight pilot ones in the third bundle have undergone the system testing, with the testing with the remaining six on the agenda. Both the voting opinion collection system for clients of margin trading and securities lending and the voting system of pilot securities companies for margin trading and securities lending have survived the test of practice as the opinion collection and voting services were successfully offered when the Shareholders' Meetings of ICBC and Ping An Insurance were held. With the further expansion of the margin trading and securities lending business, they will provide more investors and securities companies with the convenient, efficient and safe services.

CSI Cross-Straits 500 to Be Published on SSE Quotes System
17 Dec 2010
CSI Cross-Straits 500 Index, the first-ever benchmark gauge reflecting the overall market trend of China's mainland, Hong Kong and Taiwan in Greater China officially released on January 18, 2010, will be published on the SHOW2003 quotes system of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) with a code of "000999" from December 20, 2010 due to its increasing influence and satisfaction of domestic and foreign investors' needs. The impact of the index is expected to scale a new height as its distribution channel is to be expanded once again after its debut through the special market data transmission system for info service of the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEx) with a code of "CS500" on July 5, 2010. CSI Cross-Straits 500 has drawn wide attention from investors from home and abroad since its birth. It is learnt that some institutions are actively preparing for the development of relevant investment products to provide investors with easier tools to invest in markets across the straits. The 500 constituents of CSI Cross-Straits 500 are made up of the 300 stocks of CSI 300 Index, the 100 stocks of CSI HK 100 Index, and the top 100 securities in Taiwan market in terms of scale. By the end of October 2010, the index had covered about 70% market capitalization and 50% turnover of the cross-straits markets, thus depicting the overall performances of the stock markets in Greater China in an all-around manner. Statistics show that the total market capitalization of the index hits about RMB33.8 trillion, among which that of the stocks listed in China's mainland, Hong Kong and Taiwan are about RMB17.8 trillion, RMB12.4 trillion and RMB3.6 trillion, accounting for about 67%, 69% and 75% of the total of the three markets, respectively. Speaking of the industry composition, CSI Cross-Straits 500 well mirrors the characters of the three markets. Specifically, the number and weight of the financial and real estate stocks from finance-centered domestic and HK markets is considerable, or 39.46% of the total in the index. As to Taiwan market long famous for high-tech stocks, the number and weight of stocks in IT industry also comes out on top. Among the 58 IT constituent stocks (with a weight of about 12.17%) of CSI Cross-Straits 500, 44, or a weight of 10%, come from Taiwan market. Overall, the weight of the constituents from HK market is the biggest, or about 45% followed by domestic and Taiwan markets, with the weights of about 36% and 19%, respectively. By closing on December 15, 2010, the CSI Cross-Straits 500 Index in RMB had closed at 1,468.55 points, with a P/E ratio of about 19.1.

Zhou: Standardize Connected Transactions of Listed Companies
17 Dec 2010
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will formulate the "Guide on Connected Transactions of Listed Companies" to define the scope of connected transaction and standardize listed companies' connected deals from various aspects including pricing, said SSE Vice President Zhou Qinye. In Zhou's opinion, the governance goals of listed companies should be further clarified. Based on the long-term research, the SSE established the goals of honesty and trustworthiness, transparency and efficiency, balanced interests and controllable risks, and strengthened the systematic construction of corporate governance in practice. In the days to come, it will include the behaviors of controlling shareholders and actual controllers as well as listed companies' connected transactions into the scope of corporate governance to propel the overall operation of listed companies' governance structure while creating the external constraints by developing governance index and other relevant products. Zhou also noted that the SSE will encourage listed companies to further their governance practices. First, the fair disclosure by listed companies is expected to be achieved by improving the transparency, detailing the requirements and strengthening the responsibilities of directorate in information disclosure. Second, the "Guide on Connected Transactions of Listed Companies" is to be formulated to define the scope of connected deals and standardize listed companies' connected deals from various aspects including pricing. Third, listed companies will be led to establish effective incentive and constraint mechanisms, especially incentive equity and compensation schemes for managerial and backbone staff. Fourth, small and medium sized shareholders' participation in decision-making is expected to be increased by encouraging listed companies to adopt online voting and cumulative voting in the process of decision-making. Fifth, the SSE Corporate Governance Index and the SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index will be optimized consistently. Moreover, the SSE Social Responsibility Index will be improved to highlight the annual disclosure of social responsibility reports. Finally, the annual China Corporate Governance Forum and Ceremony of Special Awards for Corporate Governance will be held, with annual corporate governance reports published. To improve listed companies' governance quality, the SSE, a self-regulating institution, need update its concept from supervision to guiding. Zhou was quoted as saying that rigid mandatory measures can prevent violations against laws and regulation yet can not leverage the subjective initiative of listed companies' staff or prompt renovation and improve efficiency. Thus, the kernel of corporate governance is to cheer listed companies to optimize internal structure and establish appropriate constraint and incentive mechanisms to improve their quality through guiding measures. Zhou said that the remarkable improvement in listed companies' governance, the eternal priority of market supervision, should be attributed to the SSE's consistent efforts in past years. Since the "SSE Guide for Corporate Governance" was published in 2000, an array of regulatory documents has been put in place, including the "Model Rules of Procedure for Board of Directors of Listed Companies" and the "Model Rules of Procedure for Board of Supervisors of Listed Companies".

SSE InfoNet Launches Free SMS Alert Services
14 Dec 2010
SSE InfoNet Ltd. (SSE InfoNet) has recently launched the free SMS announcement alert services to improve investors' access to listed companies' announcements and avoid their failure in operation due to negligence or omission. The free SMS alert services launched this time cover alerts of initial public offering of A shares, alerts of public additional A shares issuance, and alerts of right issue. The former two will be available to all SMS service subscribers, while the latter will be sent to subscribers who enjoy allotment options only. Investors can subscribe for the SMS alert services online after completing the ID authentication (For details, please refer to relevant guide.) by activating in the SSE trading system the "password" obtained from the SSE InfoNet website after going through registration and filling in shareholder's account number. It should be noted that the ID authentication will not take effect until the next trading day. Thus, investors intending to subscribe for the SMS alert services should be well aware of their time of subscription.

Adjustment List for CSI 300 Index and CSI HK 100 Index
13 Dec 2010
Adjustment List for CSI 300 Index and CSI HK 100 Index   The following adjustments will be effective on the first trading day of 2011.   Adjustment List for CSI 300 Index: Deletion List Addition List Code Name Code Name 000089 Shenzhen Airport 000776 GF Securities 000488 Shandong Chenming Paper 002092 Xinjiang Zhongtai Chemical 000631 Shunfa Hengye Corporation. 002146 Risesun Real Estate Development 000717 SGIS Songshan 002294 Shenzhen Salubris Pharmaceuticals 000897 Tianjin Jinbin Development 002385 Beijing Dabeinong Technology 000932 Hunan Valin Steel 002399 Shenzhen Hepalink Pharmaceutical 600011 Huaneng Power International 002405 Navinfo Co 600022 Jinan Iron and Steel 002415 Hangzhou Hikvision Digital 600027 Huadian Power International 002422 Sichuan Kelun Pharmaceutical 600102 Laiwu Steel 600115 China Eastern Airlines 600236 Guangxi Guiguan Electric Power 600276 Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine 600246 Beijing Vantone Real Estate 600406 NARI Technology Development 600251 Xinjiang Guannong Fruit & Antler 600481 Shuangliang Eco-Energy Systems 600282 Nanjing Iron & Steel 600535 Tianjin Tasly Pharmaceutical 600426 Shandong Hualu-Hengsheng Chemical 600546 Shanxi Coal International Energy 600569 Anyang Iron & Steel 600582 Tiandi Science & Technology 600643 Shanghai AJ 600703 Sanan Optoelectronics 600688 Sinopec Shanghai Petrochemical 600823 Shanghai Shimao 600820 Shanghai Tunnel Engineering 600887 Inner Mongolia Yili Industrial 600835 Shanghai Mechanical & Electrical 600893 Xi'An Aero-Engine 600886 SDIC Huajing Power Holdings 601101 Beijing Haohua Energy Resource 601003 Liuzhou Iron & Steel 601106 China First Heavy Industries 601588 Beijing North Star 601158 Chongqing Water Group 601801 Anhui Xinhua Media 601268 China Erzhong Group(Deyang) Heavy 601872 China Merchants Energy Shipping 601369 Xi'An Shaangu Power 601991 Datang International Power 601818 China Everbright Bank   Adjustment List for CSI 100 Index: Deletion List Addition List Code Name Code Name 000562 Hong Yuan Securities 000338 Weichai Power 600011 Huaneng Power International 000776 GF Securities 600320 Shanghai Zhenhua Heavy Industries 002399 Shenzhen Hepalink Pharmaceutical 600642 Shenergy Company 600115 China Eastern Airlines 600688 Sinopec Shanghai Petrochemical 601158 Chongqing Water Group 601991 Datang International Power 601818 China Everbright Bank   Adjustment List for CSI Dividend Index: Deletion List Addition List Code Name Code Name 000155 Sichuan Chemical Company 000488 Shandong Chenming Paper Holdings 000422 Hubei Yihua Chemical Industry 000728 Guoyuan Securities Company 000554 Sinopec Shandong Taishan Pectroleum 002106 Shenzhen Laibao Hi-Tech 000630 Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group 002242 Joyoung 000807 Yunnan Aluminium 002254 Yantai Spandex 000830 Luxi Chemical Group 600004 Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport Company 600010 Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Union 600012 Anhui Expressway Company 600022 Jinan Iron and Steel Company 600018 Shanghai International Port (Group) 600058 Minmetals Development 600030 CITIC Securities Company 600064 Nanjing Xingang High-Tech 600210 Shanghai Zijiang Enterprise Group 600096 Yunnan Yuntianhua 600216 Zhejiang Medicine 600196 Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical (Group) 600395 Guizhou Panjiang Refined Coal 600428 COSCO Shipping 600481 Shuangliang Eco-Energy Systems 600475 Wuxi Huaguang Boiler 600563 Xiamen Faratronic 600578 Beijing Jinneng Thermal Power 600900 China Yangtze Power 600621 Shanghai Jinling 601088 China Shenhua Energy Company 600641 Shanghai Wanye Enterprises 601333 Guangshen Railway Company 600798 Ningbo Marine Company 601628 China Life Insurance Company 600997 Kailuan Energy Chemical 601788 Everbright Securities Company 601009 Bank of Nanjing 601958 Jinduicheng Molybdenum   Adjustment List for CSI HK 100 Index: Deletion List Addition List Code Name Code Name 0011.HK Hang Seng Bank 1288.HK ABCK 0054.HK Hopewell Hold. 0322.HK TINGYI 0272.HK Shui On Land 0151.HK Want Want China 0270.HK Guangdong Invest 3308.HK GOLDEN EAGLE   Reserve List for CSI 300 Index: Rank Code Name Rank Code Name 1 600267 Zhejiang Hisun Pharmaceutical 9 002073 Mesnac 2 000829 Telling Telecommunication 10 600511 China National Medicines 3 002378 Chongyi Zhangyuan Tungsten 11 600971 Anhui Hengyuan Coal Industry and Electricity 4 002069 Dalian Zhangzidao Fishery 12 001696 Chongqing Zongshen Power Machinery 5 600060 Hisense Electric 13 600765 Avic Heavy Machinery 6 002362 Hanwang Technology 14 002336 Renrenle Commercial 7 600498 Fiberhome Telecommunication Technologies 15 002310 Beijing Orient Landscape 8 000559 Wanxiang Qianchao         Reserve List for CSI 100 Index: Rank Code Name 1 002415 Hangzhou Hikvision Digital 2 601106 China First Heavy Industries 3 601607 Shanghai Pharmaceuticals 4 000538 Yunnan Baiyao 5 000800 Faw Car   Reserve List for CSI HK 100 Index: Reserve List Rank Code Name 1 0880.HK SJM Hldgs 2 3800.HK GCL-Poly Energy 3 0119.HK POLY HK INV 4 0973.HK Occitane Intern 5 2331.HK Li Ning                                                 Adjustment List for CSI Indices   China Securities Index Co., Ltd                                                  2010.12.13

Adjustment List for SSE 180, SSE 50, SSE 380 and Other SSE Indices
13 Dec 2010
Adjustment List for SSE 180, SSE 50, SSE 380 and Other SSE Indices According to the index rules and the review discussions by Index Committee, SSE and CSI today together announced the semi-annual review results of SSE 180 and SSE 50 and other SSE indices. All changes will be effective as of the first trading day in 2011. For more information of other SSE indices changes, please refer to SSE’s official website (www.sse.com.cn) and CSI’s official website (www.csindex.com.cn). Adjustment list for SSE 180 index： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 600007 CHINA WORLD TRADE CENTER 600085 BEIJING TONGRENTANG 600011 HUANENG POWER 600115 CHINA EASTERN AIRLINES 600018 SHANGHAI INTERNATIONAL PORT 600118 China Spacesat 600022 JINAN IRON AND STEEL 600132 CHONG QING BREWERY 600082 HI-TECH DEVELOPMENT 600175 MEIDU HOLDING 600162 HEUNGKONG HOLDING 600481 Shuangliang Eco-Energy 600267 HISUN PHARMACEUTICAL 600549 XIAMEN TUNGSTEN 600428 COSCO SHIPPING 600703 SANAN OPTOELECTRONICS 600516 FANGDA CARBON 600773 Tibet Urban Development and Investment 600611 DAZHONG TRANSPORTION 600884 NINGBO SHANSHAN 600639 JINQIAO EXPORT 600887 INNER MONGOLIA YILI 600717 TIANJIN PORT 601101 Beijing Haohua Energy 600718 SHENYANG NEUSOFT 601106 China First Heavy 600779 SICHUAN SWELLFUN 601158 Chongqing Water Group 600811 ORIENT GROUP 601179 China XD Electric 600881 JILIN YATAI 601268 China Erzhong Group(Deyang) Heavy 601808  CHINA OILFIELD SERVICES 601688 Huatai Securities 601918 SDIC XINJI ENERGY 601818 China Everbright Bank     Adjustment list for SSE 50 index： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 600550 TIANWEI BAOBIAN 600031 SANY HEAVY INDUSTRY 600739 LIAONING CHENG DA 600111 BAOTOU STEEL RARE-EARTH 600795 GD POWER DEVELOPMENT 600348 GUOYANG NEW ENERGY 601186 CHINA RAILWAY CONSTRUCTION 601688 Huatai Securities 601766 CHINA SOUTH LOCOMOTIVE 601818 China Everbright Bank   Adjustment list for SSE 380 index： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 600085 TONGRENTANG 600007 CHINA WORLD TRADE CENTER 600118 China Spacesat 600011 HUANENG POWER 600132 CHONG QING BREWERY 600018 SHANGHAI INTERNATIONAL PORT 600172 HUANGHE WHIRLWIND 600071 PHENIX OPTICAL 600175 MEIDU HOLDING 600082 HI-TECH DEVELOPMENT 600193 PROSOLAR Realestate 600097 Kaichuang Marine International 600236 GUIGUAN ELECTRIC POWER 600162 Heungkong Holding 600243 QINGHAI HUADING 600171 SHANGHAI BELLING 600278 ORIENT INTERNATIONAL ENTERPRISE 600176 CHINA FIBERGLASS 600287 JIANGSU SAINTY 600206 GRINM SEMICONDUCTOR MATERIALS 600354 DUNHUANG SEED 600253 HENAN TOPFOND PHARMACEUTICAL 600378 TIANYI SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY 600267 ZHEJIANG HISUN PHARMACEUTICAL 600393 DONGHUA ENTERPRISE 600293 SANXIA NEW BUILDING MATERIALS 600396 JINSHAN THERMOELECTRIC 600330 TIANTONG HOLDING 600398 CANAL SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL 600400 HONGDOU INDUSTRY 600463 BEIJING AIRPORTD 600428 COSCO SHIPPING 600481 Shuangliang Eco-Energy 600452 FULING ELECTRIC POWER 600526 FEIDA ENVIRONMENTAL 600516 FANGDA CARBON NEW MATERIAL 600539 LIONHEAD CEMENT 600611 DAZHONG TRANSPORTION 600549 XIAMEN TUNGSTEN 600623 DOUBLE COIN HOLDINGS 600558 ATLANTIC WELDING CONSUMABLE 600639 JINQIAO EXPORT PROCESSING. 600619 HIGHLY (GROUP) 600647 TONGDA VENTURE CAPITAL CO., LTD. 600667 TAIJI INDUSTRY 600694 DASHANG GROUP 600730 CHINA HI-TECH 600717 TIANJIN PORT 600776 EASTERN COMMUNICATIONS 600718 Neusoft Corporation 600796 QIANJIANG BIOCHEMICAL 600779 SICHUAN SWELLFUN 600818 SHANGHAI FOREVER 600780 TOP ENERGY COMPANY 600833 SHANGHAI NO.1 PHARMACY 600811 ORIENT GROUP INCORPORATION 600841 SHANGHAI DIESEL ENGINE 600853 LONG JIAN ROAD & BRIDGE 600855 AEROSPACE CHANGFENG 600863 INNER MONGOLIA HUANENG THERMAL POWER 600884 NINGBO SHANSHAN 600881 JILIN YATAI 600960 BINZHOU BOHAI PISTON 601000 Tangshan Port 600965 FORTUNE NG FUNG FOOD 601188 HeiLongJIANG Transportation 600975 HUNAN NEW WELLFUL 601369 Shaangu Power 600982 NINGBO THERMAL POWER 601518 JiLin Expressway 601005  CHONGQING IRON & STEEL 601678 Befar Group 601007 JINLING HOTEL 601808 CHINA OILFIELD SERVICES 601179 China XD Electric 601918 SDIC XINJI ENERGY   Adjustment List for SSE Indices   Shanghai Stock Exchanges China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 2010.12.13

SSE 180, 50 Indices, CSI 300, 100 Indices Adjust Constituents
13 Dec 2010
According to the index compilation rules and upon deliberation by the committee of index experts, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently announced the adjustment to the constituents of such indices as the SSE 180 Index, the SSE 50 Index, and the SSE Dividend Index. Besides, the CSI also announced the adjustment to the constituents of such indices as the CSI 300 Index, the CSI 100 Index, the CSI Dividend Index, and the CSI Cross-Straits 500 Index. The adjustment will come into effect on the first trading day of January 2011. In the adjustment, 18 stocks in the SSE 180 Index will be replaced by adding China Everbright Bank, Huatai Securities, etc. and deleting SDIC Xinji Energy Co., China World Trade Center Co., etc. Five stocks in the SSE 50 Index will be replaced by adding China Everbright Bank, Huatai Securities, etc. and deleting Baoding Tianwei Baobian Electric Co., Liaoning Chengda Co., etc. 26 stocks in the CSI 300 Index will be replaced by adding GF Securities, China Everbright Bank, etc. and deleting S Shanghai Petrochemical Co., Shenzhen Airport Co., etc. Six stocks in the CSI 100 Index will be replaced by adding GF Securities, China Everbright Bank, etc. and deleting Hongyuan Securities, S Shanghai Petrochemical Co., etc. Meanwhile, constituents of the CSI 200 Index, the CSI 700 Index, the CSI 800 Index, and the CSI 300 Sector will also be adjusted accordingly. Four stocks in the CSI Hong Kong 100 Index will be replaced by adding Agricultural Bank of China Limited, Want Want China Holding Limited, etc. and deleting Hang Seng Bank Limited, Hopewell Holdings Limited, etc. Moreover, constituents of the CSI Cross-Straits 500 Index will also be adjusted accordingly. For specific lists, please refer to the announcements of the SSE and the CSI, or visit the websites of the SSE (www.sse.com.cn) and the CSI (www.csindex.com.cn). After the adjustment, the total market capitalization of the CSI 300 Index and the CSI 100 Index will cover 67% and 51% of the total on the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), respectively. The total market capitalization of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index will account for 75% and 57% of the total on the SSE, respectively. And that of the CSI Cross-Straits 500 Index will be 68% of the total on the cross-strait markets. The semi-annual reports of 2010 showed that the net profits of the constituents of the CSI 300 and CSI 100 indices were RMB739.895 billion and RMB660.959 billion, accounting for 88.39% and 78.96% of the total of all companies listed on the SSE and SZSE, respectively. The weighted average earnings per share of the constituents of the CSI 300 and CSI 100 indices were RMB0.2698 and RMB0.2687, or 15.55% and 15.07% higher, respectively, than the average level of the companies listed on the SSE and SZSE. The net profits of the constituents of the SSE 180 and SSE 50 indices were RMB654.264 billion and RMB587.734 billion, accounting for 90.9% and 81.7%, respectively, of the total net profits of SSE-listed companies. The weighted average earnings per share of the constituents of the SSE 180 and SSE 50 indices were RMB0.2846 and RMB0.298, or 9.46% and 14.62% higher, respectively, than the average level of the SSE-listed companies. In the most recent year, the dividend payments of the CSI 300 and CSI 100 indices have reached a total of RMB362.583 billion and RMB332.981 billion, accounting for 90% and 83%, respectively, of the total dividend payment of A-share listed companies on the SSE and the SZSE. The dividend payments of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index have reached a total of RMB326.061 billion and RMB302.343 billion, accounting for 92% and 85%, respectively, of the total dividend payment of the A-share listed companies on the SSE. After the adjustment, the price-earnings ratios of the CSI 300 and CSI 100 indices are 20.30 and 17.85, respectively, if calculated according to the closing prices on December 9, 2011, or 19.41% and 29.13% lower, respectively, than the average A-share market level on the SSE and SZSE. The price-earnings ratios of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index are 18.37 and 16.25, or 14.30% and 24.20% lower, respectively, than the average level of the SSE market.

"SSE Strategic Plan (2011-2020)" Published
13 Dec 2010
Vice President Liu Xiaodong of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) briefed the media on and answered questions of reporters about the "SSE Strategic Plan (2011-2020)" at a news conference on strategic plan held by the SSE, which will celebrate its 20th birthday soon, in Shanghai on December 10. After elaborating on the SSE's strategic goals and implementation measures, Liu stressed that the SSE would go all out to fulfill its ultimate aim of building itself into a world-class bourse with improved market, sound legal system, state-of-the-art technology, efficient operation and global radiation by pressing on with five aspects of work by three stages. In the short term (from 2011 to 2013), the SSE would highlight over 100 specific work included within 37 tasks. According to its long-term strategic development objective, by 2020, the SSE would grow into one of the most influential bourses in the world, boasting a mature stock market, an improved bond market, a highly developed fund market, an abundance of securities derivatives and an increasingly rational investor structure. During the second phase of the strategic plan from 2014 to 2016, the SSE is expected to evolve into a major capital market in Asia with a more favorable competitive position in the world arena thanks to its efforts in market deepening, self-regulation supervision, technical service, mechanism construction and international cooperation. In 2013, the SSE will (1) fuel the construction of international board by accelerating the return of red-chip companies to the A-stock market in collaboration of regulatory authority and probing into the system arrangements for domestic issuing and listing of overseas enterprises, (2) speed up the system building of bond market in line with the requirements of the national "12th Five-year" Plan to lay a solid foundation for the system construction of a multi-layer capital market, (3) boost the development of index products by perfecting index series and setting up a blue-chip market index system, (4) enrich single-market ETF varieties by introducing cross-market ETFs based on the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange as well as cross-border ETF products, and (5) go into agreements with overseas index agencies with a view to forming an authorized index pattern with a global coverage and a complete layout. In Liu's opinion, the SSE's release of its strategic plan prior to its 20th anniversary not only fully demonstrated its firm belief in its future development but also came out as a positive move to win broad social recognition and unite strengths from all sides for its growth.

SSE Large-Cap Equal Weight Index to be Launched
09 Dec 2010
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. have recently announced that the SSE Large-Cap Equal Weight Index (SSE Large-Cap EWI) and the CSI Leading Technology Index (CSI Leading Technology) will be officially launched on the first trading day of January 2011. The SSE Large-Cap EWI is an innovative index derived from calculating the constituents of the SSE 50 Index by the equal weight method. The equal weight weighting is simple and ensures a more balanced weight distribution of individual stocks and industries compared with the market capitalization weighting. According to the statistics, the accumulative earning rate of the SSE Large-Cap EWI is 129.44% from December 31, 2003 to the present. Adopting the equal weight method, the CSI Leading Technology, consisting of 200 hi-tech companies with moderate scale and high liquidity on the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, aims to comprehensively reflect the overall performance of a bulk of technological leaders on the two markets. According to the statistics, the accumulative earning rate of the CSI Leading Technology is 459.96% from December 31, 2003 to the present. It is said that some fund companies are developing the ETF or index fund products with the SSE Large-Cap EWI and the CSI Leading Technology as the underlying indices.

SSE InfoNet Website Gets Facelift
06 Dec 2010
With the continuous growth and expansion of capital market, investors' demand for securities-related services is soaring. Following the introduction of online inquiry service for IPO subscription lot-winning results last year, SSE InfoNet Ltd. (SSE InfoNet), dedicated to providing investors with first-class information services, gave its company website (www.sseinfo.com) a facelift this year, apart from adding several new columns including real-time quotation, fund info platform and trading calendar, remarkably enriching the content of the website and stepping on to a new level in terms of information service quality. The newly added real-time quotation column lists the real-time and historical quotes of all SSE-listed securities. Investors can leverage the comprehensive sorting and quote reports and other sub-columns classifying the quotation in terms of securities type, index, industry and geography to facilitate their analysis and research. Besides, listed companies can easily insert the link of stock quotes into their own websites to display their stock prices. Moreover, Hang Seng Index Quotes delayed 15 minutes are also displayed on the updated website upon the authorized permission of Hang Seng Indexes Company Limited. To improve investors' access to relevant information, trading calendar, another new column of the facelifted website consisting of such sub-columns as announcement abstract, trading tips and notice of online voting of shareholders' meeting, showcases the latest announcements made by listed companies, the information that investors are most concerned in trading days, in a centralized manner. SSE InfoNet is also planning the addition of the full text of announcements, the reservation for disclosure of periodic reports and other information next year to further diversify the content of the trading calendar column. The updated fund info platform presents the daily and historical net values of all funds arranged according to their different types, including equity, bond, hybrid, QDII, closed-end and money market funds. Furthermore, analysis and statistical functions such as statistics by stages, sorting and screening are also available at the website to facilitate investor's analysis and use of information.

Legal System Construction of China's Capital Market in Retrospect and Prospect in Celebration of 20th Anniversary of the Capital Market
06 Dec 2010
——1st SSE Legal Forum Kicks off in Beijing Rule of law is the inherent demand for playing the role of capital market, the inevitable choice for achieving the standardized operation of capital market, the crucial foundation for deepening the reform and innovation of capital market, the bottom line for preventing, managing and dispelling systematic risks, and the strong guarantee for establishing the credibility of capital market supervision, Chairman Shang Fulin of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) said at the 1st "SSE Legal Forum" with the theme of "Rule of Law: Legal System Construction of China's Capital Market in Retrospect and Prospect in Celebration of 20th Anniversary", hosted by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) under the auspices of the Peking University Law School, Renmin University of China Law School and Economic Law Institute of East China University of Political Science and Law, in the celebration of the 20th founding anniversary of China's capital market in Beijing on December 4. CSRC Chairman Shang Fulin, Vice President Xi Xiaoming of the Supreme People's Court of China, Deputy Director An Jian of the State Council Legislative Affairs Office, and SSE Governor Geng Liang delivered speeches at the forum, attended by nearly 100 experts and scholars from legislative, judicial and law enforcement departments and research institutions of higher education as well as market professionals. CSRC Chairman Shang Fulin noted at the forum that China's capital market has made remarkable achievements in its growth in the past two decades, and the continuous perfection of legal systems secured the fulfillment of capital market's functions and roles. First, listed companies' core competitiveness has been enhanced effectively with increasing improvement of corporate legal system. Second, the continuous improvement of merger and acquisition legal system has greatly increased the quality and efficiency of resource allocation. Third, the enhancement of securities investment fund legal system has fundamentally changed the structure of capital market investors. Fourth, the progress in risk prevention and disposal legal system has guaranteed the safe and stable operation of capital market. Fifth, the improved multi-layer capital market legal system has well met the market demand for diversified investment and financing. Sixth, the perfected issuing and financing legal system has further strengthened the market-oriented price formation and constraint system. Seventh, the constant efforts in improving the supervision and law enforcement system have maintained the "open, fair and just" market order. He pointed out that rule of law is the inherent demand for playing the role of capital market, the inevitable choice for achieving the standardized operation of capital market, the crucial foundation for deepening the reform and innovation of capital market, the bottom line for preventing, managing and dispelling systematic risks, and the strong guarantee for establishing the credibility of capital market supervision. At last, he emphasized the work that needs to be done well in the legal system construction of capital market at present and in future: speeding up the construction of multi-layer capital market legal system; promoting the amendment and perfection of fund legal system; pressing on with the formulation and improvement of futures trading legal system; improving listed company supervision legal system; and propelling the establishment of special capital market supervision and law enforcement system. After reviewing the judicial guarantee and guidance for the innovative development of securities market made by the people's courts in the past two decades' civil, administrative and criminal trials, Vice President Xi Xiaoming of the Supreme People's Court of China said that with the rapid growth of China's capital market, accelerating the improvement of investor judicial protection mechanism and the investigation into the civil compensation liability of those on securities market infringing on investors' rights and interests have turned out to be the urgent issues of capital market that need to be solved. The Supreme People's Court will contribute to the healthy growth of China's capital market by perfecting the judicial systems related to capital market and regulating the behaviors of all market participants through judicial trials in accordance with the laws including the "Securities Law", the "Company Law", the "Property Law" and the "Tort Liability Law". Deputy Director An Jian of the State Council Legislative Affairs Office said in his speech that due to its characteristics, securities market needs sound rules, appropriate risk prevention mechanisms and strict supervision, while all of those rely on rule of law. After one score years' growth, China's capital market already has a relatively complete securities legal system, with the "Securities Law", the "Securities Investment Fund Law", the "Company Law" and other relevant regulations as the main body and the administrative regulations, departmental rules and judicial interpretations as the supporting ones, thus providing a basic system guarantee for the standardized and orderly development of the market. However, more work needs to be done in information disclosure, market supervision and investor relief, and the legislative, administrative and judicial departments still face a tough task of system construction. SSE Governor Geng Liang noted in his speech that rule of law has always been a strong guarantee for the SSE market's development in the past two decades. Thanks to the promotion of capital market legal system construction, the SSE's legal environment is improving with an increasingly complete legal system for market growth, a better judicial environment for the SSE's self-regulatory supervision and a gradually perfect system of self-regulatory supervision rules. Standing on a new historical starting point, the SSE market, stepping towards a more mature market suitable for China's actual conditions, will require a more favorable legal environment. Thus, the SSE will fulfill its self-regulatory supervision function in compliance with laws and regulations to consistently build a self-regulatory supervision mechanism fit for the market growth and innovation. Professor Wu Zhipan, Chairman of Economic Law Institute of the China Law Society and Executive Vice President of Peking University, Professor Wang Liming, Chairman of Civil Law Institute of the China Law Society and Vice President of Renmin University of China, Professor Wang Baoshu, Chairman of Commercial Law Institute of the China Law Society, Professor Guo Feng, Chairman of Securities Law Institute of the China Law Society, Professor Gu Gongyun, Vice President of East China University of Political Science and Law, and SSE Vice President Xu Ming gave keynote speeches on capital market development and legal system construction process evaluation, coordination between the "Property Law" and the securities legal system, capital market's goal of legal system construction in future, capital market transparency and its need for legal system, legal regulation of insider dealing, and further amendment and perfection of the "Securities Law", respectively. SSE President Zhang Yujun said at the forum that in the future development of capital market, the legal system construction will be expected to act as a major drive for market growth, a basic means to solve all kinds of problems and risks in market development, a fundamental measure to ensure safe market operation and improve market operation quality, a basic path to strengthening the protection of investors' rights and interests, and a long-term system to enhance Chinese capital market's core competitiveness.

Amending Securities Law for Sustainable Market Development
06 Dec 2010
In his keynote speech on legal system construction of securities market entitled "Amend Securities Law for Sustainable Market Development" at the 1st "SSE Legal Forum" on December 4, Vice President Xu Ming of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) proposed that the perfection of the "Securities Law" should include the amendment and improvement of the securities issuing, listing and delisting systems, the bond management system and the market innovation legal system, with the focus on strengthening the delisting system, detailing the delisting conditions and defining the differentiated "delisting" standards. Xu said that "in the process of amending and improving the 'Securities Law', we should enhance the regularity, thoroughness and preciseness of the procedures, improve the effectiveness of the rules in laws and regulations, provide a favorable climate for the comprehensive and differentiated development of divided and mixed operation, and define relevant securities legal relationships in paper-based and paperless operations." In his opinion, the perfection of the "Securities Law" calls for the fulfillment of several tasks. Above all, the securities issuing, listing and delisting systems should be amended and improved. Firstly, different issuing examination mechanisms may be adopted for different issuers, issued varieties and issuance methods. Besides, both substantive and formality examinations should be specified in the securities law, with space left for issuance upon registration, such as in private placement and secured bond issuance. Secondly, the private placement system should be perfected, with the private placement defined, the conditions and procedures of private placement clarified, and the resale restrictions on securities in private placement prescribed. Thirdly, the securities listing conditions are to be stipulated. The issuing and listing conditions should be distinguished from each other, with the listing examination rights fulfilled. Relevant quantitative indicators may be decided and adjusted according to the listing rules and the actual conditions before reporting to the securities regulatory and management authority for approval. Fourthly, the switch board market should be established to reserve space for board switch between different markets. The conditions and procedures of board switch between on-floor and over-the-counter markets, different on-floor markets and different sectors in the same market should be stipulated for a seamless connection at different levels. Fifthly, the delisting system demands consolidation, with delisting conditions detailed and differentiated "delisting" standards defined. Different delisting conditions should be established according to different characteristics of main board, growth enterprise market and small and medium sized enterprise board, with the continuous profitability as the major benchmark and the listed companies' performances in corporate governance, major law violations, and long-term stock trading stagnation and micro transaction as references. In the second place, the bond management system should be amended and improved. Firstly, the conditions and procedures of bond issuance are yet to be simplified. Similar to the stock system, the current corporate bond system features payment of principal and interest upon expiration without considering the advantages of bond market such as less volatility, low risk and stable earnings. As bonds are a major financing means on securities market and the development direction of China's securities market, the securities' financial indicators may be relaxed, to some extent, by setting a ceiling on the issuance scale and adopting the method of multiple issuance upon approval after passing formality examination concerning the issuance of bonds in private placement and secured bonds. Secondly, the bond listing and trading system should be perfected. So far, the listing of the bonds of several companies listed on the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) have been suspended according to the "Securities Law" due to the losses of the issuers for two consecutive years. However, since guarantees are provided for most of these bonds, the issuers' losses for two years running actually do not influence the payment of bonds principal and interest. Thus, the requirement for listing suspension dampens the enterprises' financing enthusiasm and investors' confidence in bonds trading. It is obvious that the above provision of corporate bonds listing suspension should be amended. Thirdly, the supervision of the bond market should be unified, with the legal systems of issuing, listing and trading of corporate and non-corporate bonds included in the securities law, thus realizing the uniform supervision of the bond market and preventing the resource waste due to overlapping supervision. In the final analysis, the market innovation legal system should also be amended and improved. Firstly, the type and scope of securities stipulated in the securities law should be expanded. Some publicly offered wealth management products, asset securitized products, "medium-term notes", "short-term financing instruments" and bonds issued by unincorporated enterprises are securities in nature, and are included within the regulatory scope of overseas securities laws. So the inclusion of the above securities will facilitate the uniform supervision. Secondly, the authorized legislative subject of "derivative securities" issuing and trading management measures should be adjusted from previously the State Council to the securities regulatory and management authority or the exchanges before reporting to the securities regulatory and management authority for approval. Thirdly, the space for rules supplementation should be left for market innovation. As China's securities market is not as innovative as that in the U.S. and other developed countries due to its limited trading varieties, undiversified trading method and inflexible trading mechanism, the market innovatability should be improved, and the rigid legal requirements for the issues within the function scope of self-regulatory organizations should be avoided in order not to influence the growth of the market. Relevant business rules may come out first before the innovative issues not to be regulated in laws for the moment come to the crunch for legal definition. Fourthly, the investor appropriateness management system should be established. Learning from the practice of investor appropriateness management in growth enterprise market, margin trading and securities lending, and stock index futures, the investor appropriateness management should be carried out for the relatively high-risk innovative products requiring more professional knowledge. Fifthly, the provisions in principle or legislative authorization for domestic issuing and listing of securities of foreign companies should be stipulated.

Geng: SSE Stresses Legal System Construction through Five Aspects of Work
06 Dec 2010
In his keynote speech at the 1st "SSE Legal Forum", themed as "Rule of Law: Legal System Construction of China's Capital Market in Retrospect and Prospect in Celebration of 20th Anniversary" and hosted by the Shanghai Stock Exchange in Beijing on December 4 for the 20th anniversary celebration of China's capital market, SSE Governor Geng Liang said that the bourse would consistently give full play to the fundamental role of rule of law in boosting market growth to strive to build a blue-chip market, develop bond market and encourage market innovation as legal system construction has always been an important guarantee for the development of the SSE market. In his opinion, thanks to the progress in legal system construction of capital market, a market posting high requirements for rule of law, in the past two decades, the legal climate for the SSE development has been improving. First of all, the legal systems required for the growth of the SSE market are increasingly robust. At the beginning of the founding of the SSE, there was basically no law to abide by. Apart from a small quantity of local administrative regulations, the market operation was mainly subject to the business rules stipulated by the bourse. However, the SSE market transformation from a regional to a national market since 1993 posted a higher requirement to the legal system construction. The situation of absence of laws and regulations was changed after the establishment of the capital market legal system marked by the release of the "Provisional Regulations on Administration of Stock Issuing and Trading" and the "Company Law". The "Securities Law" promulgated in 1998 put an end to the long history of the capital market without basic laws. The "Company Law" and "Securities Law" substantially modified in 2005 brought the capital market legal system construction to a new level. Another major issue in the formulation of laws and regulations is how to maximize the bourse's self-regulation role. Fortunately, it has been properly solved with the continuous perfection of securities legal system in recent years. Such significant issues as the functions of the bourse and the listing and trading of securities have been elaborated on in specific chapters or sections in the "Securities Law" and the "Company Law". So far, the fundamental legal system regulating the operation of the bourse has been put in place, with the legal status of self-regulation noticeably improved and the authority in organizing and managing securities trading and carrying out frontline supervision greatly secured. In the second place, the judicial climate for the SSE to fulfill its self-regulation function is improving day by day. The SSE faced some litigation in organizing market trading, dealing with emergencies, innovating trading varieties and mechanisms in the past several years. These cases exerted a negative impact on the stable development of the market because of their wide involvement, long processing time and complicated nature. For example, the litigation resulting from the "327 treasury bond futures" event lasted up to eight years, with the last case receiving final judgment last year. It is noticeable that in dealing with these cases, the judicial organs achieved the unification of legal effect and market effect by trying their best to protect investors' legitimate rights and interest, boost market growth and guarantee the fulfillment of the bourse's functions. Besides, the Supreme People's Court developed a judicial interpretation to establish the principle of centralized jurisdiction in accepting and hearing the cases involving self-regulation of bourses. In the rulings of relevant cases by the Supreme People's Court and the Shanghai High and Intermediate Courts, the legal force of bourses' business rules was recognized, and the reasonable judicial policy of exempting bourses from civil liabilities in case of appropriate regulatory actions was established. All this contributed to the growth of the SSE market. In the final analysis, the SSE self-regulation rules system is perfected. The SSE has been dedicated to three aspects of work in its efforts of running the bourse by law. Firstly, it enriched the legal system of capital market by developing the self-regulation business rules in time. As a result, a self-regulation rules system, with the bourse's rules and constitutions as the main body, the listing rules, trading rules and membership policies as the cornerstone, and the detailed business rules, guidelines and notices as the supplements, came into being. Furthermore, the system is to be supplemented, reviewed and perfected in a continuous manner to accommodate the new situations and problems popping up from the market. At present, the over 200 effective business rules have become an integrated part of the legal system of capital market. Secondly, it honed its internal governance structure by consolidating its self-regulation mechanism. Special committees regulating membership management and disciplinary penalty were established to strengthen the functions of the board. The mechanism of distinguishing investigation from trial for disciplinary penalty as well as the execution standards and operating procedures of penalties in self-regulation were set up. In addition, the significant decision-making mechanism for market supervision was enhanced, with the handling procedures for emergencies clarified. Thirdly, the self-regulation was carried out in a way that the organic unification between rule of law and supervision was achieved. Efforts were also made in tightening supervision and innovating regulatory methods to fulfill the lawful functions in monitoring listed companies, member units and market, turning the self-regulation into a helpful supplement to administrative supervision. The SSE's future development calls for improved legal climate and support from judicial organs, experts and scholars. Geng said that standing on a new historical starting point, the SSE, sticking to the "12th Five-year" Plan, will spare no efforts to build itself into a more standardized, open and dynamic bourse, and evolve into a mature exchange fit for China's national conditions. To achieve that, the SSE will highlight the following five aspects of work: consolidating the development foundation of multi-layer capital market by building a blue-chip market; increasing the proportion of direct financing by boosting bond market; encouraging market innovation for diversified trading varieties and methods; strengthening technical infrastructure construction to ensure the safe market operation; and strengthening the talent team building to create a "learning" bourse.

Shang: Speed up Legal System Construction of Multi-layer Capital Market
06 Dec 2010
To promulgate "Measures on Shares Listing of Non-listed Companies" as soon as possible, and press on with formulation of "Administrative Measures on Supervision over Non-listed Public Companies" To establish supervision system of privately offered funds To promote formulation and release of "Regulations on Supervision over Listed Companies" To research reform of delisting system of listed companies The legal system construction of multi-layer capital market will pick up its pace during the "12th Five-year" Plan period and beyond. Efforts should be stepped up to promote the legal system construction of multi-layer capital market by driving the amendment and improvement of fund legal system, pressing on with the formulation and perfection of futures trading legal system, honing the supervision legal system of listed companies, and boosting the establishment of special supervision and law enforcement system of capital market, Chairman Shang Fulin of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) said at the "1st SSE Legal Forum" on December 4. Shang said that we have learnt from the development experience in the past two decades that capital market is ruled by law, and rule of law plays a crucial guiding, driving and securing roles in capital market's reform and growth. The fulfillment of various tasks set in the "12th Five-year" Plan requires us to attach more importance to the role of legal system construction in the reform and development of capital market and become more adept in leveraging the rule of law to propel the reform and development of capital market in a bid to perfect the legal systems concerning market system, products and businesses, issuance and financing, merger and acquisition, asset management, and supervision and law enforcement. The following work should be done well in current and future periods: First of all, the legal system construction of multi-layer capital market should be accelerated. The supervision legal system of non-listed public companies should be established by promulgating the "Measures on Shares Listing of Non-listed Companies" as soon as possible and pressing on with the formulation of the "Administrative Measures on Supervision over Non-listed Public Companies" based on the expansion of the pilot of transfer of shares in Zhongguancun Science Park and with an eye on building a nationwide over-the-counter market under uniform supervision. Besides, the "Measures on Pilot of Corporate Bonds Issuance" should be amended and improved to improve market efficiency, give full play to market functions, and protect investors' legitimate rights and interests. The legal systems for opening-up of China's capital market should be improved consistently by perfecting the bond issuance methods, optimizing the investor structure, enhancing the systems of bond trading, settlement, credit ranking and supervision, and promoting the building of a bond market with uniform rules and sound interoperability. In the second place, efforts should be stepped up to amend and improve the fund legal system. The "Securities Investment Fund Law" should be revised in an all-around manner in the principle of not only tightening constraint and supervision but also relaxing control and encouraging innovation after summing up the practical experience. More importantly, the supervision system for privately offered funds should be established in the principle of unifying supervision standards and preventing regulatory arbitrage after learning from overseas supervisory experience to satisfy the practical growth needs, thus creating a favorable condition for the coordinated development of asset management business. Thirdly, the formulation and perfection of futures trading legal system should be speeded up. With an eye on the long-term stable development of futures market, we should summarize the lessons learnt from the implementation of the "Regulations on Administration of Futures Trading", crystallize the legal status of futures market and perfect the futures trading and risk supervision systems to promote the promulgation of China's "Futures Law". Fourthly, the formulation and promulgation of the "Regulations on Supervision over Listed Companies" should be promoted to perfect the supervision legal system of listed companies. Specific system arrangement is to be made in line with China's needs for listed company supervision to strengthen the supervision over listed companies' controlling shareholders and actual controllers. Besides, the system arrangements for market-oriented merger and acquisition are expected to be improved to increase quality and efficiency. The delisting mechanism of listed companies will also be enhanced through the concerted research on the reform of listed companies' delisting system. In the final analysis, the special supervision and law enforcement systems of capital market should be established. The functions and powers of regulatory authorities should be defined scientifically in line with the internal rules of supervision and law enforcement. The special judicial system fit for the needs of capital market supervision should be explored and established after learning from the experience and practices of overseas mature markets to achieve the effective connection between administrative supervision and judicial regulation. The legal climate for supervision and law enforcement of capital market is expected to be optimized by working out the special judicial policy documents on criminal, civil and administrative law enforcement of securities and futures. The reform and innovation of legal systems were all embodied in the significant reform and growth of China's capital market in the past two decades, and the constant perfection of capital market legal systems effectively secured the performance of the functions and rules of capital market, according to Shang. He also summarized the achievements in legal system construction of capital market in the past 20 years: improved core competitiveness of listed companies thanks to enhanced corporate legal system; increased resource allocation quality and efficiency owing to perfected merger and acquisition legal system; optimized capital market investor structure due to improved securities investment fund legal system; safe and stable operation of capital market as a result of strengthened risk prevention and disposal legal system; satisfying diversified investment and financing mechanisms because of perfected legal system of multi-layer capital market; consolidated market-oriented price formation and constrain mechanism thanks to the updated issuing and financing legal systems; and a "open, fair and just" market order attributed to improved supervision and law enforcement system. According to Shang, as of November 2010, a total of 2,026 companies had been listed on the SSE and the SZSE, with a total market capitalization of RMB26.43 trillion. Thanks to the wide participation of investors, the number of effective stock accounts had hit 130 million. Moreover, the turnover of China's commodity futures market stood out from that all around the world and topped 2.147 billion lots in the first three quarters of 2010. China's capital market has won wide recognition for its outstanding roles in improving corporate government, promoting capital formation, discovering market price, optimizing resource allocation, and diverting market risks.

SSE 380 Index Opens at 4,500 Points on 1st Trading Day
30 Nov 2010
The average P/E ratio of SSE 380 Index was 35.8, higher than 17.5 of the overall average P/E ratio of the companies listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and close to 37 of that of the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), SSE Vice President Zhou Qinye said at the launch ceremony of SSE 380 Index yesterday. Quite a few fund companies have expressed their desire to develop products based on SSE 380 Index, while the SSE is also looking forward to the early introduction of relevant products. Zhou said that today's investment is mainly indexation investment, which requires the provision of a series of indices for the multi-layer market to depict the market features and satisfy the investors' needs of observing the market in multiple levels and angles. A few years ago, the SSE introduced the SSE 50 Index and SSE 180 Index. Now, the number of companies, market capitalization and turnover of the SSE 180 Index account for 20%, 73% and 55% of that of all 890 SSE-listed companies, respectively. The SSE 180 Index enables investors to learn the features of big-cap blue chips listed on the SSE. As most SSE 180 Index constituent companies develop from small and medium sized enterprises, it is necessary to develop an index to describe the overall performance of medium sized enterprises with good growth prospect, strong profitability and distinct industry representativeness. SSE 380 Index is just the result of that effort. It is expected that the newly launched index would join with SSE 50 Index and SSE 180 Index in depicting the characters of the multi-layer blue-chip SSE market made up of big-cap blue chips. SSE 380 Index, taking December 31, 2003 as the base day and 1,000 points as the base point, opened at 4,500 points and closed at 4527.28 points yesterday, according to Zhou. Ma Zhigang, General Manager of China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI), and Professor Xu Guoxiang, Member of the Index Experts Committee, also attended the ceremony yesterday. Ma said that the release of SSE 380 Index not only embodied the SSE's strategic planning for blue-chip market development and depicted the structure and future evolution of Shanghai stock market but also enriched the SSE index system and offered a new development target for indexation products. After the launch of SSE 380 Index, CSI would make consistent efforts to support the development of SSE 380 Index based investment products by investment institutions including fund management companies and create more SSE 380 Index based derived indices, such as industry index, style index, etc. Xu noted that the significance of the introduction of SSE 380 Index lies in three aspects. First, it makes the SSE index system more scientific and integrated. Second, it helps investors establish an industry policy oriented investment concept paying attention to listed companies' business performance and growth potential. Third, it provides investors with a new analytical tool and investment target.

SSE 380 Index Launched Today
29 Nov 2010
SSE 380 Index, a brand-new emerging blue-chip index, was officially released today. Featured in great growth potential, emerging industry and blue chips, the index will join with SSE 180 Index and SSE 50 Index in constituting the major blue-chip indices on Shanghai market. According to an official from the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), twenty years ago, there were only eight companies listed on the SSE. Now, the number has climbed to 890, with a total market capitalization of RMB19 trillion. The past two decades witnessed the formation of a multi-layer capital market made up of blue-chip enterprises in SSE 50 Index and SSE 180 Index and boasting joint growth of small, medium and large sized companies. Take SSE 180 as an example, the number, market capitalization and turnover of SSE 180 Index constituents account for 20%, 73% and 55% of that of all SSE-listed companies, respectively. However, except those in SSE 180 Index, there are over 700 firms listed on Shanghai market, which represent 80% of the total number of SSE-listed companies and 45% of the turnover. Some of them are emerging blue-chip companies with great growth potential, strong profitability and distinct industrial advantage. Thus, the SSE and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) decided to release the SSE 380 Index to echo the SSE's development strategy for blue-chip market, better reflect the market structure and its change, and diversify the SSE index system. The SSE 380 Index, consisting of top 380 companies in terms of their size, liquidity, growth potential and profitability excluding those in SSE 180 Index, is positioned as an emerging blue-chip index enjoying good growth prospect and aims to mirror the overall performance of an array of medium-sized emerging blue-chip companies with great growth potential and strong profitability. According to the index compilation scheme, different from the SSE 180 Index which focuses on traditional big-cap blue chips in finance, energy, material and industry sectors, the SSE 380 Index puts its spotlight on emerging growing blue chips to reflect the overall performance of a group of medium-sized listed companies with great growth potential and strong profitability which are not traditional blue chips. Most of these companies are in their rapid growth phase or early part of maturity stage and in energy-saving and environmental protection, new-generation information technology, biology, state-of-the-art equipment, new energy, new material and other emerging industries and consumption sectors. As they indicate the strategic direction of national economic development and the direction of economic restructuring, they are usually called emerging blue-chip companies. The latest statistics show that the total and free float market capitalization and daily average trading volume of the SSE 380 Index constituents have reached RMB3.10 trillion, RMB1.61 trillion and RMB48.7 billion, accounting for 17.12%, 26.69% and 33.2% of the total of all SSE-listed stocks, respectively. It is well proven that the constituents of SSE 380 Index can stand for the SSE-listed companies excluding those in SSE 180 Index. Quite a few institutional investors, looking forward to welcoming the SSE 380 Index, hold that the introduction of SSE 380 Index would boost the development of relevant financial products and provide substantial support to the development of exchange traded funds (ETFs).

An Interview with SSE and CSI on Hot Issues of SSE 380 Index
29 Nov 2010
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) officially launched the SSE 380 Index today. To facilitate a comprehensive understanding of the release background, compilation methodology, and impact on market of the new index, a reporter from the Shanghai Securities News interviewed relevant SSE and CSI officials on the key issues of concern to investors. Q: What is the relationship between SSE 380 Index and SSE 50 Index and SSE 180 Index? A: The constituents of SSE 180 Index are made up of 180 SSE-listed big-cap stocks with high liquidity and good industrial representativeness. As these companies have strong core competitiveness, large asset size, favorable business performance and well-known product brands, the SSE 180 Index is usually thought of by market participants as blue-chip index of Shanghai market. The constituents of SSE 50 Index consist of stocks of 50 most influential industry-leading enterprises handpicked from SSE 180 Index constituents. Differently, SSE 380 Index highlights emerging growing blue chips to mirror the overall performance of an array of medium-sized listed companies with great growth potential and strong profitability which are not traditional blue-chip firms. Q: Why should factors including dividends and bonus shares distribution and undistributed profit be put into consideration when defining constituent universe of SSE 380 Index? A: Both blue-chip and emerging blue-chip companies should have the ability and willingness to distribute cash dividends and bonus shares. Take SSE 180 Index representing SSE-listed blue chips for an example, in both 2009 and 2010, its constituents' sum of distributed dividends totaled RMB272.8 billion and RMB288.9 billion, respectively, 90% higher than that of all SSE-listed A stocks and much higher than the market capitalization proportion of SSE 180 Index to all SSE-listed stocks in the same period. As emerging blue-chip companies' ability of dividends and bonus shares distribution may not be the same as that of blue-chip firms, we take dividends and bonus shares distribution as a threshold requirement rather than a benchmark in constituent selection. In other words, companies which have been established for over five years yet failed to distribute cash dividends and bonus shares in the past five years are not included in the constituent universe. One element that can not be neglected in an emerging blue-chip company's growth into a large-scale industry-leading blue-chip company is its ability of capital expansion. Capital reserves and undistributed profit are the two factors that influence a company's capital expansion. Statistics from 2004 to 2010 show that a company's behaviors of bonus shares distribution and capitalization has a strong connection with its sum of capital reserves and undistributed profit. As capital reserves mainly result from a company's share premium, assets donation and assets increment upon revaluation and have nothing to do with its operation, companies whose undistributed profit is negative are excluded from the constituent universe. Q: How are selection standards of SSE 380 Index constituents determined? A: Based on the basic features of emerging blue chips, the following factors are considered in the selection of SSE 380 Index constituents: First, company size. Different from blue-chip companies, emerging blue-chip companies refer to those that are not qualified to be blue-chip companies at present but are likely to become ones after rapid development in the following years. Thus, company size is an element that must be considered. According to the current practice on capital market and the index compilation scheme, market capitalization is a most common and widely accepted indicator used to evaluate a company's size. Second, growth potential. Undoubtedly, emerging blue-chip companies must have a good growth prospect. Only those with great growth potential are likely to develop themselves into industry-leading enterprises and become true blue-chip ones on capital market in future. As market share is usually used to measure a company's market position in an industry and operating income is the most common indicator used to reflect a company's market share, operating income growth rate is adopted to judge a constituent company's growth potential. Third, profitability. One major character of a potential blue-chip company is strong profitability. Earning per share, total profit, return on total assets and return on net assets are all most common indicators used to indicate a company's profitability. After considering the industry characteristics and comparability of various indicators, we choose return on net assets as the indicator to evaluate a company's profitability. Fourth, market liquidity. A well-run company or a company with a great growth potential will surely win the attention of investors, which is generally reflected through business volume and turnover rate. As turnover rate is volatile and may cause frequent replacement in regular adjustment to index constituents, we use business volume to measure the market liquidity. Q: Industrial factors are considered in constituent selection of both SSE 380 Index and SSE 180 Index. However, we notice that the industry standards used in the above two indices are different. Constituents of SSE 180 Index are arranged according to the proportion of first-tier industries while that of SSE 380 Index are arranged according to the proportion of second-tier industries. Why is that? A: Industrial factors are often considered in judging whether a company is a blue-chip company or not. In other words, large-scale industry-leading enterprises with strong profitability are generally regarded as blue-chip ones. SSE 180 Index decides on the number of constituent companies in each industry according to the proportion of free float market capitalization of each industry. Thus, industrial factors should also be considered in constituent selection of SSE 380 Index, an emerging blue-chip index on the market. As SSE 180 Index constituents are all big-cap blue chips, which are selected according to the ten first-tier industries classified by CSI, and emerging blue-chip companies are all leading enterprises in specific sub-sectors, the industry classification and constituent selection of SSE 380 index comply with CSI's second-tier industry category. Q: How is the industrial distribution of SSE 380 Index constituents? A: The constituents of SSE 380 Index covers 21 out of all 25 second-tier industries according to CSI's industry classification standard, with no stocks selected from the four second-tier industries of telecom, banking, insurance and comprehensive finance. With a relatively balanced industrial distribution, the top three industries are capital goods, raw material and pharmacy, and biotechnology and life science, with the weights of 24.23%, 18.73% and 9.33%, respectively. Q: How is the market capitalization distribution of SSE 380 Index constituents? A: Latest statistics show that among the SSE 380 Index constituents, the numbers of companies whose market capitalization is more than RMB50 billion, between RMB20 billion and RMB50 billion, between RMB10 billion and RMB20 billion, between RMB5 billion and RMB10 billion, between RMB2 billion and RMB5 billion, and less than RMB2 billion are 1, 15, 54, 140, 154 and 16, respectively. Noticeably, the market capitalization of most SSE 380 Index constituents is between RMB2 billion and RMB10 billion. Q: How is the market performance of SSE 380 Index? A: According to income history, from 2004 to 2010, the accumulative return of the index is 351%, while that of SSE Small Cap Index and SSE 180 Index is 312% and 133%, respectively. Q: How is adjustment to constituents of SSE 380 Index conducted? A: The constituents of SSE 380 Index are adjusted semiannually on the first trading days of January and July. In case that a constituent stock of SSE 380 Index is selected into SSE 180 Index between the two regular adjustments, it will be deleted from SSE 380 Index immediately, and be replaced by the highest-ranked one in the industry same as it. Q: What are the distinctive features of SSE 380 Index in terms of constituent composition? A: SSE 380 Index has five characteristics in its constituent composition. First, most companies in the index are medium-sized ones, with the market capitalization from RMB2 billion to RMB10 billion. Second, most constituent companies are leading enterprises in their respective sub-sectors and are likely to grow themselves into blue-chip companies in future. Third, the index covers most SSE-listed companies in emerging industry, representing the strategic direction of national economic development and the direction of economic restructuring. Fourth, the constituent companies have a great growth potential. Fifth, the constituent companies boast a strong profitability.

SSE Presents Investor Education TV Series "Blue Dreams"
26 Nov 2010
In honor of its upcoming 20th founding anniversary, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently produced a large-scale investor education TV series "Blue Dreams" in collaboration with Xinhua News Agency Shanghai Branch in a bid to provide investors with a better market environment with improved services and tightened supervision. Thanks to the support from the officials of the China Securities Regulatory Commission and Xinhua News Agency as well as the assistance from the community, the production of "Blue Dreams" was rounded off after more than one year's hard work. The 50-episode TV series falls into eight chapters, namely Shanghai stock market, securities investment products, exchange traded funds (ETFs), stock issuing and listing, merger and acquisition, securities trading, securities service intermediaries and securities investment risk. The program, rich in valuable photo and video materials, probes into the ABCs of securities by unfolding and analyzing the typical cases and historical events on domestic and foreign securities markets and inviting professional reviews from over 100 experts. Apart from being aired on SSE investor education website, xinhuanet.com, and outdoor big screens at the Century Square on Nanjing Road, Shanghai, "Blue Dreams" will also be broadcast as a special program of the SSE "Public Lecture on Securities" at business departments nationwide through satellite communication system. In future, it will also be played through other relevant channels of Xinhua News Agency and some TV stations.

SSE Stems Insider Trading from the Source
25 Nov 2010
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) lost no time to tighten supervision and prevention of insider dealing on the securities market in compliance with the recent requirements of the General Office of the State Council for the crackdown and prevention of insider dealing on the capital market. In its recent 3rd follow-up training of secretaries to directorates of listed companies in 2010 in Xi'an, the SSE focused on supervision over insider dealing, orienting the senior executives of listed companies including secretaries to directorate to the fulfillment of their information disclosure management duties and the confidential management over insider information. All this aimed to improve the quality of standardized operation and corporate governance of listed companies and prevent and stem the occurrence of insider dealing from the source. Meanwhile, the SSE held special training workshops on supervision and prevention of insider dealing in collaboration with the relevant local securities regulatory bureaus. Based on the updated policies related to insider dealing supervision and the latest administrative penalty cases, the workshops reviewed the construction of China's comprehensive insider dealing prevention and control system as well as the exchanges' duties and specific ways of supervision over insider dealing. The training was meant to help secretaries to directorate and relevant personnel of listed companies, who play a crucial role in insider information management and insider dealing prevention and control, have a thorough understanding of all regulatory requirements, fulfill their duties of information disclosure management and standardize their own trading behaviors. Meanwhile, relevant laws and regulations on insider dealing were publicized within the companies to urge the companies' management to do a good job in insider information management and forewarn the companies' other insiders of insider information to stay away from and resist insider dealing at their own discretions. Board chairmen and secretaries to directorate of listed companies in Chongqing and Hubei participated in the special training workshops on insider dealing supervision and prevention jointly sponsored by the SSE and the Chongqing and Hubei Securities Regulatory Bureaus. The SSE will devote itself to maintaining the market order and promoting the standardized development of listed companies by intensifying training on insider dealing supervision towards senior executives of listed companies in warding off insider dealing through supervision over abnormal trading and information disclosure of listed companies, and the like, in accordance with the State Council requirements as stipulated in the "Opinions on Cracking down on and Preventing Insider Dealing on Capital Market".

ETFs to Bloom on A-stock Market
16 Nov 2010
Actively-managed ETFs, inverse ETFs and leveraged ETFs will be the goal of innovation in future. China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) held the 4th Index and Indexation Investment Forum in Shanghai on November 15, where experts made in-depth discussion on the topic of "indexation investment in the backdrop of financial innovation" and agreed that the indexation investment in China is facing a great development opportunity, with actively-managed ETFs, inverse ETFs, leveraged ETFs and long/short strategic ETFs being the main goal of ETF innovation in future. Delivering keynote speeches at the forum were Tong Daochi, Director of International Cooperation Department of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, Fang Xinghai, Director of the Shanghai Financial Service Office, Zhou Qinye, Vice President of the Shanghai Stock Exchange, and Zhou Jiannan, Assistant to President of the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. The past two years witnessed the unprecedented development and innovation of index products, particularly ETF products, on the capital market in China's mainland. The year of 2009 was nicknamed "The Year of Index Fund" as the number of index products introduced to the public went beyond the total in the past seven years. Among the 29 index products, four were ETFs. The upsurge of indexation investment is gaining momentum this year. By November 12, 10 out of 38 issued index products had been ETFs, indicating a dramatic rise in proportion. Besides, the types of index products are diversified as thematic index funds, strategic index funds, thematic ETFs, strategic ETFs and other new products vie to make their debuts. By the end of October, there had been 79 index products (including 53 index funds) as well as 15 ETFs and 11 feeder funds, boasting net asset values of about RMB240 billion and RMB80 billion, respectively. The number of index products had accounted for about 12% of that of all mutual funds, with the net asset values accounting for about 13% of that of the total. Financial system innovation provides a favorable environment for further development of indexation investment. Strategic indices based on quantitative strategy and derivatives are prevalent, while actively-managed ETFs, inverse ETFs, leveraged ETFs and long/short strategic ETFs are becoming the main goals of ETF innovation in the days to come. The introduction of ETF options and warrants and other derivatives in future will in turn boost the growth of ETFs.

Zhou: SSE to Promote Indexation Investment by Three Stages
16 Nov 2010
The indexation investment on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) in future will adopt a three-step strategy, namely introducing cross-variety ETFs while boosting cross-market and cross-border ETFs, and in order to achieve that, the SSE has signed the agreements on index authorization with nine international index companies and five exchanges, SSE Vice President Zhou Qinye said on November 15. Zhou noted in his speech at the "4th Index and Indexation Investment Forum" on the same day that the SSE has always attached importance to index and indexation investment. Although the SSE has some traditional indices, such as SSE Composite Index and SSE 30 Index, unfortunately, they are not suitable for investment. In 2002, the SSE released SSE 180 Index, followed by SSE 50 Index. In recent years, the SSE transferred all its index-related maintenance and management to China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI). So far, the number of indices headed with "SSE" has reached nearly 80. Meanwhile, the indexation investment on the SSE has seen a remarkable progress. By the end of last year, there had been five ETFs traded on the SSE. This year, another seven are introduced. These twelve ETFs boast an asset size up to RMB50 billion. According to Zhou, the SSE is also vigorously promoting innovation of indexation investment. In January 2008, the "Corporate Governance Sector" and "SSE Corporate Governance Index" were launched. To facilitate investment, SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index was released in September 2008. In August 2009, SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index ETF was published. With increasing attention from listed companies to social responsibility, the SSE introduced Social Responsibility Index in July 2009. This August, some fund companies released Corporate Social Responsibility ETFs. Zhou briefed in his speech on the to-be-launched SSE 380 Index that the SSE is dedicated to building up a blue-chip market. Two decades ago, there were only eight SSE-listed companies. Today, this number climbs to 889. With RMB19 trillion total market capitalization and RMB15 trillion free float market capitalization, a number of blue-chip enterprises representing SSE 50 Index and SSE 180 Index come into being. "The number of companies in SSE 180 Index is 20% of that of all SSE-listed companies, while their market capitalization and turnover account for 73% and 55% of that of the total, respectively. However, there are still 700 SSE-listed firms which are not included in SSE 180 Index. These firms represent 80% of the number of companies and 45% of the total turnover, among which there are a number of emerging blue chips with great growth potential, strong profitability and distinct industrial advantage." Zhou said. Thus, the SSE and CSI jointly developed SSE 380 Index, whose constituents are stocks of companies boasting favorable growth potential, distinct industry representation and strong profitability excluding those in SSE 180 Index. These 380 companies are reported to stand for 70% market capitalization and 73% turnover excluding that of SSE 180 Index. According to statistics, the accumulative yield of SSE 380 Index from 2004 to 2010 hits 277%, with the latest P/E ratio at 35.8. The introduction of SSE 380 Index will be followed by the release of corresponding indexation products.

SSE 380 Index To Be Launched
15 Nov 2010
To further enhance the SSE index family as well as to provide investors with the new underlying instrument, SSE and CSI together announced today that the SSE 380 Index would be launched on November 29, 2010. The base date is December 31, 2003 and the base value is 1000. Regarding the methodology and more details of the above index, please refer to the official website of SSE (www.sse.com.cn) and the official website of CSI (www.csindex.com.cn) respectively. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. 2010.11.15 [Methodology of the SSE 380 Index]

Shanghai Stock Market to Welcome New Emerging Blue-chip Index as SSE 380 Index to Be Launched
15 Nov 2010
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently announced that the SSE 380 Index would be officially launched on November 29, 2010, with the base day on December 31, 2003 and the base point at 1,000 points. After more than two decades of development, a multi-layer capital market featured with big-cap blue chips and boasting joint growth of small, medium and large sized enterprises has taken shape in Shanghai. Moreover, the ever-improving SSE index system, which at present covers such series as scale, sector, style, strategy and theme, provides investors with tools to analyze the SSE-listed companies in a multi-level and multi-angle manner. To adapt to the SSE's development strategy of blue-chip market, better reflect the market structure and its development, and enrich the SSE index system, the SSE and CSI plan to release the SSE 380 Index. Different from the SSE 180 Index which focuses on traditional big-cap blue chips in finance, energy, material and industry sectors, the SSE 380 Index puts its spotlight on emerging growing blue chips to mirror the overall performance of an array of medium-sized listed companies with great growth potential and strong profitability which are not traditional blue chips. Most of these companies are in their rapid growth phase or early part of maturity stage and in energy-saving and environmental protection, new-generation information technology, biology, high-end equipment, new energy, new material and other emerging industries and consumption sectors. As they indicate the strategic direction of national economic development and the direction of economic restructuring, they are usually called emerging blue-chip companies. The SSE 380 Index, SSE 180 Index and SSE 50 Index will jointly constitute the major blue-chip indices of Shanghai market. The constituents of SSE 380 Index are made up of top 380 companies in terms of their operating revenue growth rate, return on net assets, turnover and total market capitalization excluding the constituents of the SSE 180 Index and those firms whose undistributed profit is negative and which fail to distribute cash dividend or bonus shares in the last five years, with the number of listed companies in each secondary industry determined in the principle of industry matching. This particular compilation method not only considers the growth, profitability, scale and liquidity of the stocks but also highlights the industrial status of the stocks, thus ensuring the characters of blue chips with great growth potential of the constituents. According to the latest statistics, the total and free float market capitalization and daily average trading volume of the constituents of SSE 380 Index have reached RMB3.22 trillion, RMB1.67 trillion and RMB48.7 billion, accounting for 16.22%, 25.29% and 33.2% of the total of all SSE-listed stocks, respectively. SSE 380 Index stands for 73% market capitalization and 61% turnover of the Shanghai stock market excluding that of the constituents of SSE 180 Index. Regarding industrial distribution, the constituents of SSE 380 Index covers 21 out of all 25 secondary industries, with no stocks selected from the four secondary industries of telecom, banking, insurance and comprehensive finance. With a relatively balanced industrial distribution, the top three industries are capital goods, raw material and pharmacy, and biotechnology and life science, with the weights of 24.23%, 18.73% and 9.33%, respectively. Historical data showed that SSE 380 Index embodied the high evaluation feature as high growth stocks, with the accumulative yield from 2004 to 2010 hitting 277% and the latest P/E ratio at 35.8. For compilation methodology and more information of SSE 380 Index, please refer to the website of the SSE (www.sse.com.cn) and the website of CSI (www.csindex.com.cn).

SSE Strengthens Supervision over Securities Issuance, Listing
12 Nov 2010
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently published the "Guidelines for Issuing and Listing Securities" to strengthen its supervision over securities issuance and listing. The "Guidelines", constraining the behaviors of securities issuance participants including issuers, sponsors, underwriters and price inquiry institutions, aim to improve the efficiency and transparency of pricing in the process of securities issuance by urging all participants to fulfill their duties. The "Guidelines" requires sponsors and lead underwriters to be adequately staffed and establish relevant internal management systems to improve the quality of securities issuance and listing, while defining the regulatory and punishment measures against violations of issuers, sponsors, lead underwriters, price inquiry institutions and investors. Two new systems are the highlights of the "Guidelines". I. "Guidelines": a significant supplementary measure for reform of IPO system According to an official from the SSE, the "Guidelines" further perfect the existing IPO system from a micro and basic level while carrying on the requirements of the China Securities Regulatory Commission for the reform of IPO system. From 2009, regulators launched two rounds of reform on IPO issuance system to optimize systems and intensify constraints on market by focusing on price inquiry, pricing and shares placement mechanisms. The first wave of reform built up the market constraint on quotation by forbidding the behaviors of quoting at high prices but not buying and buying at high prices but quoting at low prices as well as encouraging the expression of true will in the process of quoting. Furthermore, the market-oriented pricing mechanism was optimized in phase I reform by decreasing administrative guidance. In the second round of reform launched in November this year, institutional investors who are more capable of pricing and have long-term investment intentions were introduced to the shares placement mechanism to participate in offline price inquiry and placement, further improving the quality of pricing. Moreover, the offline drawing mechanism was adopted to constrain the quotation of price inquiry institutions from the aspect of the amount of shares allotted and encourage them to deepen their research on the investment value of new shares, thus facilitating reasonable quotation. Fortunately, the transparency of price inquiry and pricing were improved by publishing the specific quotes of price inquiry institutions and the valuation results of underwriters. The two rounds of reform not only achieved favorable results but also put forward higher requirements for micro-foundation of the market. First of all, underwriters are expected to assume their responsibilities earnestly and improve their professional services in an all-around way to lay a solid micro-foundation for the thorough reform of IPO issuance system. Secondly, the internal departments of underwriters are expected to fulfill their respective duties and keep relative independence, while the capital market department should bring its function of connecting issuers with investors into full play. Thirdly, a tracking and monitoring mechanism should be established to intensify the supervision over price inquiry institutions and the constraint on their integrity. Finally, an advanced business and investment culture is desired. In this context, the release of the "Guidelines", meeting the need of building market micro-foundation, is a significant supplementary measure for reform of IPO system. II. "Guidelines": a necessity for the SSE to play its role of supervision as a self-regulatory organization According to the official from the SSE, different from that on overseas securities markets, the public issuance and listing of China's securities has for a long time been conducted through the systems and platforms of exchanges, which not only saves the issuance costs for issuers but also facilitates small and medium investors' participation in IPO subscription. It is a crucial link in securities issuance system. As a self-regulatory organization on securities market, ensuring the safe operation of trading system, creating a transparent, open, safe and efficient market environment, and safeguarding investors' rights and interests have always been the key duties of the exchange. The "Guidelines", standardizing the behaviors of all participants of securities issuance and listing, improves the efficiency of securities issuance and listing and guarantees the safe operation of system and protect investors' interests as well. The official was quoted as saying that the SSE will sum up the experience in implementing the "Guidelines" and make timely amendments to the "Guidelines" according to the change on market and the requirements of regulatory systems to meet the need of market growth.

Over 4,400 Independent Directors Get Qualifications from SSE Training Classes
12 Nov 2010
Nearly 500 experts, scholars and professionals from all walks of life who are interested in working as an independent director have recently participated in the 15th training class of qualification for independent director of listed company, jointly held by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the Shanghai National Accounting Institute (SNAI). SSE Vice President Zhou Qinye noted in his speech at the opening ceremony that China's 9-year-old system of independent director of listed company plays a positive role in optimizing the governance structure of listed companies and improving the governance quality of listed companies. Since the launch of the training for independent directors, the SSE has held 15 training classes of qualification for independent director in collaboration with the SNAI. Over 4,400 experts, scholars and professionals obtained the qualification certificates, most of who have worked as independent directors of listed companies and made great achievements. Zhou said that due to the different understanding of and expectation from the independent director system, the securities market has different evaluation on the role of independent director. He believes that in order to fully inspire the enthusiasm of independent directors and better bring the role of independent directors into play, the expansion of appointment channel of independent directors may be considered in future, including individual competent appointment and candidate recommendation by the association of independent directors. In terms of selection, the competitive election and cumulative voting systems can be introduced. As for the expertise of candidates for independent director, those with practical experience or strong point in corporate management should be considered increased. At its 20th anniversary, the SSE will select "top ten independent directors" to raise independent directors' sense of responsibility and honor to better promote the standard development of independent director system.

SSE Free Float Index , CSI Equal Weight 90 Index and CSI 300 SSE Stocks Index To Be Launched
10 Nov 2010
To further enhance SSE and CSI Index families as well as to provide investors with the new underlying instrument, SSE and CSI together announced today that SSE Free Float Index, CSI Equal Weight  90 Index and CSI 300 SSE Stosks index will be launched on Dec 2th 2010. Regarding the methodologies and more details of the above indices, please refer to the official website of SSE ( www.sse.com.cn ) and the official website of CSI ( www.csindex.com.cn ) respectively. SSE CSI Nov 10TH 2010 [Methodology of SSE Free Float Index]

SSE Free Float, CSI EW 90, 300 SSE to Be Launched on Dec. 2
10 Nov 2010
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently announced that SSE Free Float Index (SSE Free Float), CSI Equal Weight 90 Index (CSI EW 90) and CSI 300 SSE Stocks Index (300 SSE) would be officially introduced on December 2, 2010. The constituents of SSE Free Float consist of all A shares listed on the SSE excluding those whose issuers haven't completed equity division reform and which are imposed with listing suspension. SSE Free Float, calculated by way of weighted method based on free float adjusted market capitalization, reflects the price fluctuation of free float shares listed on the SSE and is a new investment research and analysis instrument for investors. The constituents of CSI EW 90, calculated by way of weighted method with equal weight, are comprised of 50 constituents of SSE 50 Index and 40 constituents of SZSE Component Index. By November 8, 2010, the market capitalization and free float market capitalization of CSI EW 90 had reached RMB12.97 trillion and RMB3.72 trillion, respectively, accounting for 45.48% and 35.33% of that of all A shares listed on the SSE, respectively. The constituents of 300 SSE, a reflection of overall performance of all SSE-listed shares in CSI 300 Index, are made up of all SSE-listed shares in the constituents of CSI 300 Index. By November 8, 2010, the market capitalization and free float market capitalization of 300 SSE had been RMB15.47 trillion and RMB4.48 trillion, respectively, accounting for 84.36% and 74.76% of that of CSI 300 Index, respectively. It is learnt that there has been fund companies which are developing index-type investment products based on CSI EW 90 and 300 SSE.

SSE: Five Measures to Control Insider Dealing
05 Nov 2010
Insider dealing has become one of the obstacles to the sound development of the capital market in an all-floating market environment. In recent years, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has implemented the self-regulatory management, brought into full play the advantage of front-line supervision and strictly supervised the insider dealing. The bourse has made achievements in the comprehensive prevention and control of insider dealing thanks to a series of supervision measures aiming to enhance the awareness of the insiders of inside information of abiding by the laws and regulations and promote the standardized operation of the listed companies and relevant parties apart from the continuous improvement of restriction mechanism. Firstly, the SSE has emphasized the confidentiality requirements before the listed companies' disclosure of significant information. A listed company's inside information refers to the undisclosed information involving the listed company's operation and finance or having great influence on the company's stock prices. The inside information, created when a listed company is planning a specific issue, is compiled, transmitted, examined and approved and finally disclosed. Relevant persons in the know in every link can be called the insiders of inside information. Once such persons use the inside information for stock purchase and sale, leak the information or advise others to buy or sell shares, an insider dealing is formed. Therefore, the SSE has focused on three sources to prevent the insider dealing in the daily information disclosure supervision. To begin with, the bourse required the listed companies to strictly formulate and implement the information disclosure administrative systems and the circulation systems of internal information transmission. Relevant information disclosure parties such as the directors, supervisors, senior executives and controlling shareholder, actual controller, purchaser, sponsor, securities service institutions and media should be confirmed. They should strictly fulfill their duties in information disclosure according to the "Securities Law", the "Measures on Administration of Information Disclosure of Listed Companies" and other regulations. The insiders shall not disclose or leak the inside information or use it for insider dealing before the lawful disclosure. Any organization or individual is not allowed to illegally obtain, provide or spread the listed companies' inside information. In addition, the SSE has strengthened the supervision over the transfer process of the significant information. Since 2009, the bourse has started from regulation of the listed companies' significant reorganization by launching the registration system of insiders of inside information in the listed companies' significant assets reorganization. It has also reinforced listed companies' awareness of inside information management by pushing the listed companies to improve their inside information management measures. On learning any listed company's abnormal fluctuation of stock shares, market rumor or announcement on significant issues, the SSE's Company Management Department will immediately send the letter on supervision to that company and require it to submit the list of insiders of inside information for the special check by the SSE's Market Surveillance Department. Finally, the SSE further stressed the necessity and liability of insider dealing prevention and control to the external parties of the listed companies, especially their controlling shareholders and actual controllers. In the "Guidelines of Conducts of Controlling Shareholder and Actual Controller of Listed Company" released in August 2010, the bourse stressed that the controlling shareholder, actual controller and relevant personnel should keep confidential the undisclosed significant information of a listed company learned through various ways and shall not publish or disclose such information or make a profit with the information. Secondly, the SSE has reinforced the joint supervision of the abnormal fluctuation of stock prices and information disclosure. As the listed companies' information disclosure is closely related with the abnormal fluctuation of stock prices on the secondary market in the all-floating era, there has been an increasing trend of disseminating information in concert with the stock price manipulation on the secondary market and insider dealing. The faster and more concealing way of illegal profit-gaining has made the investigation and punishment more difficult. With regard to that, the SSE has included the fluctuation of listed companies' stock prices into the scope of its daily information disclosure supervision to ensure the "real-time supervision and inquiry, timely disclosure". After discovering the media report, market rumor or the continuous abnormal fluctuation of any listed company's stock prices, the SSE's Company Management Department will immediately inquire of the listed company, require it to inquire of its controlling shareholder and actual controller and urge it to clarify or announce relevant significant information in time. On the premise of ensuring the fairness of information disclosure without affecting the trading continuity and market efficiency, if any listed company still can not meet the requirement of completeness in the significant event's disclosure, the SSE will take such supervision measures as disclosure in stages and temporary trading suspension. The former measure requires the listed company to disclose the specific information at a certain point according to the progress in the event and caution the investors of the final result and the uncertain influence on the company. The latter measure is to suspend the trading of a company's shares until it correctly and completely discloses relevant issues. In general, the SSE has achieved good results by intervening during the trading and warning after the closing, adopting the cooling mechanism of special trading suspension, increasing the investigation, check and report on the abnormal fluctuation, intensifying the supervision over the market rumor and information in the spotlight and taking such measures as the trading restriction towards the suspicious accounts. Thirdly, the SSE has strengthened the supervision over the stock trading of listed companies' directors, supervisors, senior executives and major shareholders. The listed companies' directors, supervisors and senior executives as well as the shareholders holding over 5% equity are the lawful insiders of inside information, so whether their stock trading activities, a key link in the inside trading prevention and control, are standard is essential to the market. The SSE has cooperated with Shanghai Branch of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited in taking effective supervision measures towards the shareholding management and change of listed companies' directors, supervisors, senior executives, major shareholders and other insiders of inside information with relevant technical methods in accordance with the requirements of the laws and regulations such as the "Company Law", the "Securities Law" and the "Management Measures of Shares in Listed Company Held by Directors, Supervisors and Senior Management and Change of These Shares" of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). The first measure is the combination of the prior supervision with after-action supervision. It will screen and recognize the illegal trading of the aforesaid personnel or organizations through prior technical control and after-action periodic (after the disclosure of the annual and semi-annual reports) or non-periodic check. According to the check result, it will express surveillance attention to relevant personnel or report them to the SSE's Disciplinary Committee for disciplinary sanction. The second measure is the publicity and training of the rules. The SSE has held or assisted the local supervision bureau in holding the legal trading training for listed companies' directors, supervisors, senior executives and major shareholders for many times. It has also released the "Q & A on Norm of Shares Trading by Listed Companies' Directors, Supervisors, Senior Management and Shareholders" and the "Notice of Urging Listed Companies' Directors, Supervisors, Senior Management and Shareholders to Strictly Observe Rules of Shares Trading" in 2009 after summarizing the previous supervision experience to further guide and standardize the shares trading of the aforesaid personnel or institutions. Fourthly, the SSE has paid special attention to the insider dealing in the merger and acquisition (M&A) and reorganization. Regarding the prominent insider dealing in the M&A and reorganization, the SSE has centralized the supervision resources to continuously enhance the supervision, investigation and punishment towards the insider dealing in the M&A and reorganization so as to crack down on the illegal activities. It has also increased the cost of violation and unfaithfulness of the insiders of the inside information to curb their insider dealing. First of all, the SSE has formulated ten memos of significant assets reorganization in succession to standardize and guide the listed companies' reorganization business flow, emphasize the prevention of insider dealing and require the listed companies as well as their controlling shareholders and actual controllers to control the insiders within the minimum scope in planning the significant assets reorganization and to apply for trading suspension to the exchange as soon as possible. Secondly, the SSE has made it clear that the listed companies and relevant obligors of information disclosure should submit files, apply for trading suspension and inquire about relevant policies regarding the disclosure of sensitive information about stock prices such as the M&A and reorganization after closing at 15:00 every day, namely, the exchange will not accept the application for trading suspension of shares or accept and examine relevant information disclosure documents during the stock trading period. Thirdly, the exchange will check every order concerning the trading on the secondary market and that of insiders of inside information of the listed company applying for the M&A and reorganization according to relevant regulations of the CSRC. It is stipulated that after the trading suspension of the listed company due to the plan of significant assets reorganization, the listed company should immediately submit the list of insiders of inside information including the listed company, major shareholders, actual controller and its directors, supervisors and senior executives, relevant personnel of the reorganization counterpart and its related parties, relevant organizations and personnel providing services for the reorganization scheme and participating in the formulation, demonstration and other links of the scheme. Based on the exchange's database of insiders of inside information and the list of insiders of inside information submitted by the listed company, the SSE's Market Surveillance Department will check in time the trading on the secondary market and that of relevant insiders of inside information before the trading suspension of the company's shares and report the check result to relevant department of the CSRC in time. Fifthly, the SSE has strengthened the listed companies' training and guided the standardized operation of the listed companies and relevant parties. The SSE has always laid emphasis on the training of insider dealing prevention in the trainings held by it or those jointly held with the local regulatory bureau and other organizations. It has promoted the listed companies to upgrade the standardized operation of information disclosure by introducing relevant laws and regulations and legal liabilities of insider dealing, analyzing the typical cases of insider dealing, explaining the harm of insider dealing, specifying the inside information management requirements and the regulator's supervision measures on insider dealing as well as emphasizing the responsibilities of relevant insiders of insider dealing.

SSE Infonet Launches Listed Company Info Service Platform
05 Nov 2010
SSE Infonet Ltd. (SSE Infonet), the affiliate of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), has recently launched the "Listed Company Information Service Platform", which has offered a free "one-stop" service platform for all the listed companies in the form of terminal application and built a convenient and efficient communication channel between the listed companies and the SSE after integrating all the services previously provided by it for the listed companies. SSE Infonet has successively offered many information products and services for the listed companies in recent years to better satisfy their information needs. The listed companies may have access to the services on the website of the SSE (www.sse.com.cn), the website of SSE Infonet (www.sseinfo.com) and many other platforms provided by SSE Infonet. However, the inconsistency of the former service platforms following the increase of listed companies' businesses and SSE Infonet's services has reduced the efficiency, making the former platforms unsuitable for the rapidly growing market. According to an SSE Infonet official, more information services will be released based on the platform to further upgrade the exchange's market services.

SSE Holds Mock Trading for Securities
05 Nov 2010
During the Shanghai Expo, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) invited the top students majoring in finance and economics from Fudan University, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai University of Finance and Economics and East China Normal University to join in the "Open Day of Securities Mock Trading to Celebrate Expo" activity based on the newly launched securities mock trading platform of the exchange. As one of the exchange's "Six Ones" key projects for investor education, the mock trading platform is a special system for investor education integrating knowledge learning, rules demonstration, risk disclosure and simulated trading after the construction for over one year. With lots of simulation types and educational features, the platform, a major site for the SSE's investor education activities, embodies the exchange's innovative approach of investor education. According to an SSE official, the "Open Day of Securities Mock Trading to Celebrate Expo" activity allows the exchange to deepen the cooperation with the renowned universities in the city, experiment the effective combination of investor education and national financial education and gain some experience. In future, the SSE will further integrate the useful investor education resources in the industry, expand the coverage and influence of investor education, carry out all kinds of thematic activities and reinforce the training of potential qualified investors.

SSE to Strengthen Filing, Training of Independent Directors
01 Nov 2010
The "SSE Guidance on Filing and Training of Independent Directors of Listed Companies", formulated and published recently by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) to further improve the corporate governance and quality of listed companies, has been implemented since the publication day. The Guidance, with 26 clauses in 4 sections, regulates on the filing procedures for candidates of independent directors as well as the qualifications and training of independent directors. According to the Guidance, if a listed company's directorate, board of supervisors or shareholders with the right to nominate independent directors plans to nominate the candidates of independent directors, the listed company should fill in the resumes of the candidates on the website of the SSE before submitting the written documents of relevant materials of the candidates within 2 trading days from the day of nominating the candidates. The SSE will examine the qualifications of the candidates in line with relevant regulations within 5 trading days after receiving the materials filed with it. The Guidance requires that candidates of independent directors should possess a basic knowledge of how a listed company operates, get familiar with relevant laws, administrative regulations, department rules and other regulatory documents, have more than 5 years' experience in law, economy, finance, management or other fields that independent directors need to perform their duties, and obtain the certificates for qualifications of independent directors according to relevant regulations. Besides, they should be independent without any bad record. For any independent director who holds the position in a listed company for 6 years in a row, he or she can no longer hold the position in the listed company. The Guidance also asks independent directors of listed companies to get qualifications before holding the position by attending training courses of at least 30 class hours. After holding the position, they should receive the follow-up training once every two years of at least 30 class hours.

SD&C, SSE, SZSE Arrange for Banks to Trade Bonds on Stock Exchanges
29 Oct 2010
In line with the “Notice of Relevant Issues Concerning Listed Commercial Banks’ Pilot Trading of Bonds on Stock Exchanges”, the China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited (SD&C), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) made arrangements for relevant issues concerning bonds trading of listed commercial banks on the SSE and the SZSE in the pilot period by jointly issuing on October 28 the “Notice of Relevant Issues Concerning Bonds Trading of Listed Commercial Banks on Stock Exchanges in Pilot Period”. According to the notice, commercial banks, accessible to bonds market on the stock exchanges for bonds trading at the auction system, are required to take the self-regulatory management of stock exchanges in addition to providing applications, basic information registration forms and other documents before obtaining the trading qualifications. Meanwhile, they should make technical preparations for bonds trading by opening their communication lines in light of the technical specifications required by the stock exchanges. During the pilot period, commercial banks can conduct spot trading of treasury bonds, enterprise bonds and corporate bonds or other products approved by regulatory authorities at the auction system of the stock exchanges. The notice stipulates that listed commercial banks, acting as special clearing participants, are eligible for direct participation in bonds registration and clearing business of the SD&C. They are required to sign the agreement on securities capital clearing and take self-regulatory management of the SD&C in addition to providing applications and other documents before obtaining clearing qualifications. Besides, commercial banks can apply for opening ordinary securities accounts to the Shanghai and Shenzhen branches of the SD&C by filling in the “Registration Application Form of Intuitions’ Securities Accounts” and submitting application materials. Commercial banks should use the securities accounts in compliance with relevant rules. To facilitate clearing and delivery of commercial banks’ bonds business, the Shanghai and Shenzhen branches of the SD&C will, with the commercial banks as legal persons, open for the commercial banks one account for capital delivery and the other for other clearing and delivery. According to the SD&C, the minimum excess reserve for the capital delivery account of the commercial banks is zero at present and handling of the mutual guarantee fund is subject to the current practice.

SSE to List T-bonds on Fixed Income Platform, Auction System
27 Oct 2010
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) plans to list the treasury bonds (T-bonds) on both the fixed income platform and the auction system (including the block trading system) from November 5, 2010 onwards, with an aim to improve market liquidity of the treasury bonds. Previously, the treasury bonds were traded on either of the above two systems. According to the "Notice of Listing T-bonds on Both Fixed Income Platform and Auction System" issued by the SSE today, the treasury bonds will be listed on the fixed income platform and the auction system as well. Dealers of the platform can independently choose either the platform or the auction system to conduct spot trading of the treasury bonds while other market participants can trade the treasury bonds through the auction system. The ways for order and spot trading of treasury bonds on the platform or the auction system remain unchanged. The notice stipulates that pledge-style repos will be traded on the auction system, with the ways for trading and order of in-and-out storage of the pledged bonds unchanged. The fixed income platform will still accept orders of in-and-out storage of pledged bonds. The notice also requires platform dealers to set up complete business management system and risk control mechanism to strictly forbid short selling in spot trading. The SSE is entitled to pronounce the transaction invalid if short selling occurs on the fixed income platform or impose restriction or suspension on bonds transaction in serious cases.

SSE,SSRB Stress Crackdown on Insider Dealing
20 Oct 2010
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the Shanghai Securities Regulatory Bureau (SSRB) have recently held a special training on supervision over insider dealing to further the understanding of supervision law enforcement officers in the front line on issues related to insider dealing,strengthen the communication between the grassroots regulatory organs and the enforcement departments of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC),and improve the capability to discover and deal with the clues to insider dealing. Experts from the CSRC Enforcement Bureau,General Force of Enforcement and Administrative Sanction Committee were invited to the training session to give detailed introduction to the status quo of domestic cases and behavior characteristics of insider dealing and lecture on the methods,difficulties,recognition standards,experience and other practical skills related to the discovery and investigation of clues to insider dealing cases by studying some typical insider dealing cases on the recent market. In response to the fact that insider dealing has become one of the major obstacles to the healthy development of capital market,the SSE has added the contents concerning prevention and control of insider dealing to its recent trainings. In the days to come,the SSE will consistently intensify the exchange of regulatory law enforcement skills in discovering and investigating clues to insider dealing while fulfilling its function of self-regulation to form the cohesive supervision and law enforcement forces in cracking down on insider dealing. The SSRB has also given its priority to crackdown on insider dealing by perfecting the discovery and disposal mechanism for insider dealing cases and strengthening the publicity,training and education towards senior management and practitioners of listed companies through various ways and means.

Announcement on Adjusting Weight Limit of SSE Commodity Equity
12 Oct 2010
To improve the investment availability of the index, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. decided to adjust the upper weight limit of each constituent of SSE Commodity Equity index (SSE Commodity Equity) to 5%. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. October 12, 2010

SSE Intensifies Training for Supervision over Insider Dealing
30 Sep 2010
The training course on supervision over insider dealing for secretaries to directorate of listed companies has recently been held by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) in Beijing. Over 280 secretaries to directorate and representatives of securities affairs from listed companies attended the course. The training aims to prevent and reduce insider dealing from the source by instructing and urging senior management of listed companies including secretaries to directorate to earnestly fulfill their duties of information disclosure management in a bid to improve the standardized operation and corporate governance of listed companies. One of the focuses of the training is to help secretaries to directorate and relevant personnel, who play a crucial role in insider information management and insider dealing prevention in listed companies, have a thorough understanding of regulatory requirements by briefing them on the updates in penalties for insider dealing and accurately interpreting the regulatory policies. The trainers interpreted relevant laws and regulations on insider dealing supervision and introduced the SSE's duties and means in insider dealing supervision. Besides, the features of insider dealing and the orientation of regulatory policy were analyzed in depth through the typical insider dealing cases of Xiamen Prosolar Technology Development Co., Ltd., Sichuan Shengda Industrial Co., Ltd. (Sichuan Shengda), Sichuan Xinguang Silicon Technology Co., Ltd. and Xi'an Gree Real Estate Co., Ltd. (Gree Real Estate). The inference of insider dealing through circumstantial evidence in the case of Sichuan Shengda and the inclusion of disclosing insider information due to negligence into the subjective elements of committing illegal insider trading in the case of Gree Real Estate were posed as a strong warning for the secretaries to directorate and representatives of securities affairs participating in the training. They said that the recently investigated typical cases of insider dealing not only demonstrated regulatory authority's scientific legal concept and policy orientation as well as refined regulation and penalty standards for insider dealing, but also showcased the determination of regulatory authority in cracking down on insider dealing and maintaining normal market order. The SSE asked the insiders of insider information in listed companies to learn from the typical cases and standardize their trading behaviors to avoid insider dealing and urged the persons in charge of information disclosure in listed companies to earnestly fulfill their information disclosure management duties by actively publicizing relevant laws and regulations on insider dealing within the listed companies, help the companies manage insider information, and guide and remind other insiders of insider information in the companies to deter and reject insider dealing. SSE Vice President Zhou Qinye said that insider dealing, a "cancer" jeopardizing the healthy, stable and sustainable development of securities market, is one of the focuses in supervision. The SSE will continuous to leverage its advantage to fulfill its self-regulatory supervision duties for standardized growth of listed companies by intensifying the insider dealing supervision according to the latest market and policy trends, taking strict precautions and controls against insider dealing in such links as abnormal trading monitoring and information disclosure of listed companies, and offering regular business trainings to key personnel.

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2010 Mid-Autumn Festival, National Day
15 Sep 2010
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the 2010 Mid-autumn Festival and National Day according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2010" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2009] No. 42) as follows: I. Arrangements for market closing (1) Mid-Autumn Festival: The bourse will close from September 22 (Wednesday) to September 24 (Friday), 2010 and open for trading from September 27 (Monday), 2010. It will also close on the weekend on September 25 (Saturday) and September 26 (Sunday), 2010. (2) National Day: The bourse will close from October 1 (Friday) to October 7 (Thursday), 2010 and open for trading from October 8 (Friday), 2010. II. To ensure the normal trading after the holidays, the SSE will provide linkage testing environment of trading system from 9:30 to 12:00 on October 7 (Thursday), 2010. III. Relevant clearing issues shall be carried out according to the arrangements of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange September 15, 2010

SSE Extends Frontier of Crack-down on Insider Dealing
01 Sep 2010
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has intensified the special training on prevention and control of insider dealing in the recent qualification and follow-up training for secretaries to directorates and independent directors of listed companies, since the insider dealing has become one of the major obstacles to the sound development of the capital market. The bourse aims to enhance the senior executives' prevention awareness to crack down on insider dealing from the source. Fighting insider dealing and stock price manipulation are essential to the frontline supervision of the securities market. As one of the key links in the comprehensive prevention and control system for violations such as insider dealing, the SSE has attached great importance to integrating the internal supervision resources and cooperating with the external regulatory authorities, showing its determination in fighting violations and achieving positive results. In recent years, the SSE has played an important role in investigating and dealing with a number of major insider dealing cases thanks to the great improvement in its supervision capability, response speed as well as examination and handling efficiency. Apart from taking resolute action against the insider dealing in the frontline supervision, the SSE also imperceptibly spread the knowledge of insider dealing prevention in its routine market services on various occasions and by various ways to the market participants who might become the insiders, in the hope that they will realize the futility of the violations' escape from the whole-process supervision and severe punishment of regulators. Most of all, the bourse has highlighted the training for listed companies' senior executives and strengthened the precaution to rule out the opportunistic psychology by explaining the harm and consequence of insider dealing. For years, the SSE has laid emphasis on the supervision of trading and abnormal fluctuation of stock prices in the qualification and follow-up training for listed companies' secretaries to directorates and independent directors. It has recently enhanced the special training on prevention and control of insider dealing regarding the current negative influence of the insider dealing on the sound development of the capital market. At the just-concluded 2nd follow-up training for independent directors of listed companies and qualification training for secretaries to directorates of to-be-listed companies in 2010, the experts effectively gave systematic and in-depth explanation through specific cases to relevant laws and regulations of insider dealing, the consequences and harm of insider dealing, the insider information management, the supervision measures of the regulatory authorities on the insider dealing, relevant regulations on selling and purchasing shares in listed companies by their controlling shareholders and actual controllers, and the standardized operation of listed companies. The SSE said that it would continuously emphasize relevant education of preventing insider dealing in the training for listed companies to raise their prevention awareness and upgrade their standardized operation. Meanwhile, it will further popularize the ideas of strengthening insider information management, avoiding insider dealing and participating in the capital market operation according to law in its market services of IPO, refinancing as well as merger, acquisition and reorganization to promote the sound, stable and orderly development of the capital market.

SSE Takes Seven Measures to Crack down on Insider Dealing
24 Aug 2010
To strengthen the supervision over insider dealing, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently held a special meeting on supervision work to study the arrangements of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) for cracking down on insider dealing and pledge to give its first priority in frontline market supervision to deterring insider dealing and take several measures to strengthen the supervision over insider dealing. The SSE put forward seven regulatory measures. Firstly, the internal supervision resources will be integrated to increase the efforts to crack down on insider dealing. The stock exchange, the frontline market regulator, is crucial to the comprehensive prevention and control system of insider dealing. The SSE will improve the regulation response speed and efficiency and tighten the supervision over insider dealing by enhancing the integration of its regulatory resources and holding special meeting on supervision work on a regular basis to coordinate, deploy and promote the work of preventing and curbing insider dealing. Secondly, the capability to discover clues to insider dealing will be strengthened. The SSE will consolidate the coordination mechanism between abnormal stock price fluctuation monitoring and information disclosure supervision as well as the examination and verification of insider dealing in merger and acquisition. Once the abnormal stock trading is discovered, the SSE will thoroughly investigate relevant trading behaviors and report in time the clues to violations. The SSE will also make further analysis on the features of insider dealing and optimize the monitoring indicators to improve the monitoring system functions and enhance the capability to spot insider dealing. Thirdly, the supervision over information disclosure will be intensified to stop the insider dealing root and branch. Last year, the SSE introduced the registration system of insiders of inside information in significant assets reorganization of listed companies. This move not only increased the inside information management awareness of listed companies and drove the perfection of their inside information management measures but also laid a solid foundation for cracking down on insider dealing thanks to the timely and complete data of insiders of inside information. In August 2010, the SSE published the "Guidelines of Conducts of Controlling Shareholder and Actual Controller of Listed Company" to promote the perfection of corporate governance from the aspect of standardizing the behaviors of controlling shareholder and actual controller of listed companies. The SSE will in the days to come continue to intensify the continuous supervision over listed companies' information disclosure including the registration of insiders of inside information in a bid to curb the insider dealing root and branch. Fourthly, the supervision role of media will be given full play. Public supervision is one of the major channels to discover and deter insider dealing. The SSE has always attached importance to the supervision of media over suspicious insider dealing and market manipulation, and will in future take the initiative in collecting the clues found by the media to make swift supervision response. Meanwhile, the SSE encourages investors and insiders to report clues to insider dealing in a view to forming the cohesive forces in the society to stop insider dealing. Fifthly, the training for listed companies and the education towards investors will be enhanced. The SSE will highlight the prevention of insider dealing in training for listed companies to increase their awareness of preventing insider dealing. Furthermore, the SSE has publicize the insider dealing in investor education through newspaper, network, lectures, brochures and other channels and ways to create a favorable atmosphere among investors for constraining insider dealing. Sixthly, the supervision cooperation will be enhanced to promote the construction of comprehensive prevention and control system for insider dealing. Under the guidance of the CSRC, the SSE will enhance its cooperation and exchange with public security and justice departments and the Ministry of Supervision to provide full support to investigation of insider dealing cases and other securities violations so as to promote the construction of comprehensive prevention and control system for insider dealing. Seventhly, the client management responsibility of brokers will be strengthened. Impelling brokers to earnestly fulfill the client trading management responsibility is an important part of the SSE's client management work. In future, the SSE will increase brokers' responsibility and awareness to find and report illegal trading behaviors including insider dealing through such work as broker business training, broker classification appraisal and promotion of brokers' innovative businesses including margin trading and securities lending to keep down insider dealing.

Notice of Paper Solicitation for 1st "SSE Legal Forum"
29 Jul 2010
Since the establishment of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) at the end of 1990, China's capital market has went through 20 years of ups and downs, during which relevant legal system construction has accomplished great progress with the rapid growth of capital market. To comb the history of legal system construction of capital market, find out the key issues in the current legal system construction and predict the future development trend of legal system construction, we will hold the 1st "SSE Legal Forum" with the theme of "go along with rule of law: look back and forward to the legal system construction at the 20th anniversary of capital market" in late November 2010. The forum will be hosted by the SSE and co-organized by Peking University Law School, Law School of Renmin University of China and Economic Law Academy of East China University of Political Science and Law. To embody the forum tenet of advantage complementation and mutual exchange and improvement between the academic world and the industry, it hereby solicits papers to theoretic and practical communities of law, finance and investment nationwide, with the details as follows: I. Requirements for Paper 1. The thesis can focus on the overall situation or a certain aspect of the legal system construction during the 20 years or a certain stage (such as the last five years) of China's capital market from the view of civil and commercial law, administrative law or criminal law and by way of theoretical analysis, empirical research or case study. Topics for reference: appraisal and analysis of legal system construction of capital market; appraisal and analysis of significant legal events of capital market; research on perfection of legal system of capital market; research on law transplantation of capital market; research on legal support to innovation on capital market; research on legal culture and eco-environment of capital market; research on global financial crisis and supervision over capital market; appraisal of legal system theoretical research of capital market. 2. Scientific argumentation, sufficient evidence, rigorous logic, clear-cut structure and fluent expression are expected from the papers, with market-oriented ones with high academic quality and practical value especially welcomed. 3. Contributions to the Forum will be viewed as contributions to "Securities Law Forum" hosted by the SSE and published on a continuous basis. Contributions shall meet relevant regulations on copyright, the generally accepted academic standards and the requirements specified in the "Layout Style" of "Securities Law Forum". II. Deadline October 10, 2010 III. Contribution Method Please email your contributions in Word format as attachments to zqfy@sse.com.cn (Please indicate "contributions to 'SSE Legal Forum'" in the subject of the e-mail; Confirmation by phone after e-mailing is advised). IV. Awarding Rules The Forum will organize experts to appraise the papers. Prize money and certificates will be awarded to the contributors winning the first, second, third prizes and the award of excellent paper. Prize-winning papers will be preferentially published at Volume III of "Securities Law Forum" (published before the opening of the Forum in November 2010). V. Contacts SSE: Lu Wendao (021-68801911, wdlu@sse.com.cn); Wang Shengyi (021-68812549, sywang@sse.com.cn); Peking University Law School: Peng Bing (010-62766029, pengbing@pku.edu.cn); Law School of Renmin University of China: Liu Junhai (010-82500470, lluohong@126.com); Economic Law Academy of East China University of Political Science and Law: Luo Peixin (021-67790294, luo_peixin@yahoo.com.cn). Preparatory Committee of 1st "SSE Legal Forum" Editorial Board of "Securities Law Forum" July 2010

SSE Sector Equal Weight Index Series to Be Launched
27 Jul 2010
SSE Sector Equal Weight Index Series to Be Launched (2010-07-27)   The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently announced that the SSE Sector Equal Weight Index Series will be officially launched on August 18, 2010. The Series will reflect the overall performance of the stocks of companies in different sectors on Shanghai securities market, and provide the tracking targets for indexation investment products. The base day of the indices is December 31, 2003, with the base point of 1,000.   According to the compilation scheme, the constituent selection method of the SSE Sector Equal Weight Index Series is the same as that of the SSE Sector Index Series. However, in terms of the weight method, the weight of each secondary sector in the ten SSE Sector Equal Weight Indices equals that of its free-float market capitalization. Besides, the equal weight method is adopted for the stocks in the secondary sectors. Meanwhile, a weight upper limit of 10% for a single stock is required for the indices with over 10 constituents.   It is learnt that the Index Series is strategic sector indices developed with joint efforts and at the request of Hua An Fund Management Co., Ltd. (Hua An). Adopting the equal weight method in the secondary sectors, the Series not only preserve the original sector distribution features of the indices but also reduce the influence of the heavyweight stocks on the indices. The introduction of the SSE Sector Equal Weight Indices will further enrich the index resources on Shanghai market and provide investors with more angles of view and investment tools. It is learnt that Hua An is devoted to the development of the ETF products of the SSE Sector Equal Weight Indices.     [List of Constituents of SSE Sector Equal Weight Index Series]

ABC to Be Taken into Constituent Indices on Jul. 29
16 Jul 2010
Agricultural Bank of China (ABC), listed yesterday on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) with the total market capitalization of A shares reaching RMB783.2 billion, has met the conditions for large-cap stock's IPO speedy entry into indices. According to the announcement by the SSE and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI), ABC will be included on July 29 in such constituent indices as SSE 180 Index, SSE 50 Index, SSE Mega-cap Index, CSI 300 Index and CSI 100 Index. Meanwhile, Shanghai Jinfeng Investment Co., Ltd., Shanghai Electric Group Company Limited and Haitong Securities Company Limited will be deleted from SSE 180 Index, SSE 50 Index and SSE Mega-cap Index, respectively. Guangzhou Shipyard International Company Limited will be deleted from both CSI 300 Index and CSI 800 Index. Besides, Oceanwide Construction Group Co., Ltd. will be deleted from CSI 100 Index. Meanwhile, indices including SSE Mid-cap Index, SSE Large & Mid & Small Cap Index, CSI 200 Index and CSI 700 Index will also be adjusted accordingly. After the adjustment, the market capitalization of SSE 180 Index, SSE 50 Index, CSI 300 Index, CSI 100 Index and CSI 800 Index will cover 77.52%, 61.87%, 69.97%, 55.82% and 82.84% of the total from 72.21%, 56.99%, 66.08%, 51.87% and 78.94%, respectively.

Announcement on Adjusting SSE 180, 50 Indices Constituents
16 Jul 2010
Announcement on Adjusting SSE 180, 50 Indices Constituents   As Agricultural Bank of China (601288) is ranked top 10 for its total market capitalization on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and has met the conditions for large-cap stock’s IPO speedy entry into indices, the SSE and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) decided to make from July 29 onwards the following adjustments to indices including SSE 180 Index, SSE 50 Index and SSE Mega-cap Index:   Name of Index Add Delete Stock Code Stock Name Stock Code Stock Name SSE 180 601288 Agricultural Bank of China 600606 Shanghai Jinfeng Investment Co., Ltd. SSE 50 601288 Agricultural Bank of China 601727 Shanghai Electric Group Company Limited 180 Financial 601288 Agricultural Bank of China     SSE Mid-cap 601727 Shanghai Electric Group Company Limited 600606 Shanghai Jinfeng Investment Co., Ltd. Small & Mid-cap 601727 Shanghai Electric Group Company Limited 600606 Shanghai Jinfeng Investment Co., Ltd. SSE Large & Mid & Small Cap 601288 Agricultural Bank of China 600606 Shanghai Jinfeng Investment Co., Ltd. SSE Cyclical 601288 Agricultural Bank of China 600808 Maanshan Iron & Steel Company Limited (Mas C.L.) Mega-cap 601288 Agricultural Bank of China 600837 Haitong Securities Company Limited 180 Value     600606 Shanghai Jinfeng Investment Co., Ltd. 180 Relative Value 601288 Agricultural Bank of China (0.5) 600606 Shanghai Jinfeng Investment Co., Ltd. 180 Relative Growth 601288 Agricultural Bank of China (0.5)     Large & Mid & Small Cap Value     600606 Shanghai Jinfeng Investment Co., Ltd. Large & Mid & Small Cap Relative Value 601288 Agricultural Bank of China (0.5) 600606 Shanghai Jinfeng Investment Co., Ltd. Large & Mid & Small Cap Relative Growth 601288 Agricultural Bank of China (0.5)     SSE Financial 601288 Agricultural Bank of China     SSE Overseas-listing 601288 Agricultural Bank of China       Shanghai Stock Exchange   China Securities Index Co., Ltd.   July 16, 2010

Announcement on Adjusting CSI 300, 100 Indices Constituents
16 Jul 2010
Announcement on Adjusting CSI 300, 100 Indices Constituents   As Agricultural Bank of China (601288) is ranked top 10 for its total market capitalization on the Shanghai and Shenzhen Stock Exchanges and has met the conditions for large-cap stock’s IPO speedy entry into indices, China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) decided to make from July 29 onwards the following adjustments to indices including CSI 300 Index, CSI 100 Index and CSI 800 Index:   Name of Index Add Delete Stock Code Stock Name Stock Code Stock Name CSI 300 601288 Agricultural Bank of China 600685 Guangzhou Shipyard International Company Limited CSI 100 601288 Agricultural Bank of China 000046 Oceanwide Construction Group Co., Ltd. CSI 200 000046 Oceanwide Construction Group Co., Ltd. 600685 Guangzhou Shipyard International Company Limited CSI 700 000046 Oceanwide Construction Group Co., Ltd. 600685 Guangzhou Shipyard International Company Limited CSI 800 601288 Agricultural Bank of China 600685 Guangzhou Shipyard International Company Limited 300 Relative Growth 601288 Agricultural Bank of China (0.5) 600685 Guangzhou Shipyard International Company Limited 300 Relative Value 601288 Agricultural Bank of China (0.5) 600685 Guangzhou Shipyard International Company Limited 300 Financials 601288 Agricultural Bank of China     300 Industrials     600685 Guangzhou Shipyard International Company Limited CSI Industrials     600685 Guangzhou Shipyard International Company Limited CSI Financials 601288 Agricultural Bank of China     CSI Midstream     600685 Guangzhou Shipyard International Company Limited 300 Cyclical 601288 Agricultural Bank of China     300 Non-cyclical     600685 Guangzhou Shipyard International Company Limited 300 Banks 601288 Agricultural Bank of China     Cross-Straits 601288 Agricultural Bank of China 600685 Guangzhou Shipyard International Company Limited   China Securities Index Co., Ltd.   July 16, 2010

SSE ETF Products Win 3 Int'l Awards
02 Jul 2010
The new product development of the Exchange Traded Funds (ETF) by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), recognized by the international ETF circle recently, has won three prizes of the 6th Annual Global ETF Awards evaluated by www.exchangetradedfunds.com, the world-famous specialized ETF website, including the "Most Proactive ETF Exchange", the "Largest Exchange for ETFs in Dollar Turnover" and the "Largest Exchange for ETFs in Volume" in Asia-Pacific region. Moreover, the "Most Recognized ETF Brand" in Asia-Pacific region was granted to China Asset Management Co., Ltd., the manager of the SSE 50ETF. ETFs are the SSE's focal point of product development at present. Under the leadership of the China Securities Regulatory Commission and the Shanghai Municipal Government, the number of ETFs saw a doubled increase in the single market of the SSE in 2009, with the preparations for cross-market and cross-border ETFs completed on the whole. The argumentation of such innovative ETFs as leveraged ETF, inverse ETF, optimized replication ETF has become more sufficient. The research of other types of ETFs such as bonds, gold and commodities has been deepened. The development process, management method, operational mechanism and risk management of ETFs have been improved. The fund mangers and other institutions have become more willing to develop ETF products, while investors have become more receptive to ETF. The SSE regarded the award-winning as both an encouragement and incentive. At the next stage, the SSE will, on the basis of risk control and in line with the principles of "specialization, marketization, transparency and standardization", promote the development of new ETF products to achieve the greater success of ETF products and market.

List of Regular Constituent Adjustment to SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index
28 Jun 2010
List of Regular Constituent Adjustment to SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index (Effective on July 1, 2010)   Delete Add Bond Code Bond Name Bond Code Bond Name 122975 09 Jinan City Construction 122921 10 Chenzhou Bonds 122983 09 Nanjing Iron & Steel United 122928 09 Tieling Bonds 122988 09 Yulong Bonds 122936 09 Hecheng Investment      

Announcement on Adjusting Underlying Securities of Margin Trading, Securities Lending
21 Jun 2010
Announcement on Adjusting Underlying Securities of Margin Trading, Securities Lending   According to Article 24 in the “Detailed Rules of the Shanghai Stock Exchange on Pilot Implementation of Margin Trading and Securities Lending” and the “Notice on Scope of Underlying Securities and Qualified Securities Representing Margin in Initial Stage of Pilot Margin Trading and Securities Lending”, the Shanghai Stock Exchange will adjust the list of underlying securities of margin trading and securities lending from July 1, 2010.   The following securities will be added into the list of underlying securities: No. Stock Code Stock Name 1 601618 Metallurgical Corporation of China Ltd. 2 601699 Shanxi Lu’an Environmental Energy Development Co., Ltd. 3 601788 Everbright Securities Company Limited 4 601998 China CITIC Bank Corporation Limited   The following securities will be deleted from the list of underlying securities: No. Stock Code Stock Name 1 600018 Shanghai International Port (Group) Co., Ltd. 2 600029 China Southern Airlines Company Limited 3 600320 Shanghai Zhenhua Port Machinery Co., Ltd. 4 600598 Heilongjiang Agriculture Company Limited   Shanghai Stock Exchange   June 21, 2010  

Adjustment list for SSE Corporate Governance Index、SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index AND SSE Social Responsibility index
18 Jun 2010
Adjustment list for SSE Corporate Governance Index、SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index AND SSE Social Responsibility index The following adjustment will be effectiveon July 1, 2010. Adjustment list for SSE Corporate Governance Index ： Deletion List Deletion List Code name Code name 600027 Huadian Power International Corporation Limited 600176 China Fiberglass Co.,Ltd 600438 Tongwei Co., Ltd. 600227 Guizhou Chitianhua Co.,Ltd. 600487 Hengtong Optic-Electric Co.,Ltd 600435 China North Optical-Electrical Technology Co., Ltd. 600527 Jiangsu Jiangnan High Polymer Fiber Co.,Ltd. 600488 Tianjin Tianyao Pharmaceutical Co.,Ltd. 600860 Beiren Printing Machinery Holdings Limited 600765 Avic Heavy Machinery Co.,Ltd 601168 Western Mining Co.,Ltd 600888 Xinjiang Joinworld Co.,Ltd. 601898 China Coal Energy Company Limited 601009 Bank of Nanjing Co.,Ltd 601899 Zijin Mining Group Company Limited 601766 China South Locomotive & Rolling Stock Corporation Limited     601866 China Shipping Container Lines Company Limited Adjustment list for SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index Deletion List Deletion List Code name Code name 600151 Shanghai Aerospace Automobile Electromechanical Co.,Ltd. 600183 Guangdong Shengyi Sci.Tech Co.,Ltd. 600153 Xiamen C&D Inc. 600267 Zhejiang Hisun Pharmaceutical Co.,Ltd 600251 Xinjiang Guannong Fruit & Antler Group Co., Ltd. 600418 Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co.,Ltd. 600456 Baoji Titanium Industry Co.,Ltd. 600435 China North Optical-Electrical Technology Co., Ltd. 600596 Zhejiang Xinan Chemical Industrial Group Co.,Ltd. 600533 Nanjing Chixia Development Co.,Ltd. 600600 Tsingtao Brewery Company Limited 600595 Henan Zhongfu Industry Co.,Ltd. 600886 SDIC Huajing Power Holdings Co.,Ltd 600736 Suzhou New District Hi-Tech Industrial Co.,Ltd 601168 Western Mining Co.,Ltd 601009 Bank of Nanjing Co.,Ltd 601898 China Coal Energy Company Limited 601766 China South Locomotive & Rolling Stock Corporation Limited 601899 Zijin Mining Group Company Limited 601866 China Shipping Container Lines Company Limited Adjustment list for SSE Social Responsibility index Deletion List Deletion List Code name Code name 600019 Baoshan Iron & Steel Co.,Ltd. 600048 Poly Real Estate Group Co.,Ltd 600022 Jinan Iron and Steel Company Ltd. 600104 SAIC Motor Corporation Limited 600270 Sinotrans Air Transportation Development Co.,Ltd 600266 Beijing Urban Construction Investment & Development Co.,Ltd 600389 Nantong Jiangshan Agrochemical&Chemicals Co.Ltd 600469 Aeolus Tyre Co.,Ltd. 600428 COSCO Shipping Co.,Ltd. 600508 Shanghai Datun Energy Resources Co.,Ltd. 600432 Jinlin Ji En Nickel Industry Co., Ltd. 600525 Changyuan Group Ltd. 600456 Baoji Titanium Industry Co.,Ltd. 600561 Jiangxi Changyun Co.,Ltd. 600962 SDIC Zhonglu Fruit Juice Co., Ltd. 600582 Tian Di Science & Technology Co.,Ltd 601898 China Coal Energy Company Limited 600858 Silver Plaza Group Co.,Ltd 601919 China COSCO Holdings Company Limited 600993 Mayinglong Pharmaceutical Group Stock Co.,Ltd.   Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co.LTD 2010.06.18

Constituents of Governance, Social Responsibility Indices Adjusted As Re-evaluation Result of SSE Corporate Governance Sector Unveiled
18 Jun 2010
he Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently re-evaluated the SSE Corporate Governance Sector after the election of a new Expert Consultative Committee for SSE Corporate Governance Sector Appraisal. The new 11-member Committee, with Hu Ruyin taking the position of Chairman, consists of domestic experts and renowned scholars in the field of corporate governance research. Established in 2007, the Committee has devoted itself to providing consultation service and suggestions for decision-making for the appraisal of the SSE Corporate Governance Sector. Both the SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index and the SSE Social Responsibility Index were developed and launched based on the SSE Corporate Governance Sector. Meanwhile, the Committee reassessed the SSE Corporate Governance Sector. In line with the "Appraisal Measures of SSE Corporate Governance Sector", the SSE Corporate Governance Sector is finally formed through voluntary application of listed companies, public opinion solicitation, comments by consultancies, primary selection, and examination by the expert consultative committee. The Sector will be re-appraised from May to June every year. In this re-evaluation, 9 stocks will be added in the Sector, including Bank of Nanjing Co., Ltd. and China South Locomotive & Rolling Stock Corporation, while 8 old ones, including Western Mining Co., Ltd. and Tongwei Co., Ltd., will be deleted. After the adjustment, the number of constituents of the Sector will increase from 241 to 242. According to the index rule, the SSE Corporate Governance Index, the SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index and the SSE Social Responsibility Index will be adjusted accordingly upon the adjustment to the SSE Corporate Governance Sector. The constituents of the SSE Corporate Governance Index are made up of all the stocks in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector. Ten constituents of the SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index will be replaced through adding such stocks as China South Locomotive & Rolling Stock Corporation and China Shipping Container Lines Company Limited and deleting such stocks as Zijin Mining Group Co., Ltd. and China Coal Energy Company Limited. Besides, 10 constituents of the SSE Social Responsibility Index will be replaced through adding such stocks as SAIC Motor Corporation Limited and Tiandi Science & Technology Co., Ltd. and deleting such stocks as China Coal Energy Company Limited and Jinan Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. The adjustment will take effect on July 1, 2010. After the adjustment, the total market capitalization of the constituents of the SSE Corporate Governance Index, the SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index and the SSE Social Responsibility Index are RMB9.5733 trillion, RMB8.5474 trillion and RMB4.9149 trillion, accounting for 64.31%, 57.42% and 33.02% of the total of the stocks on the SSE, respectively. Moreover, the average social contribution value per share of the SSE Social Responsibility Index reaches RMB2.30, 53.54% higher than the average level of the SSE Corporate Governance Sector. Fifteen institutions that participated in the appraisal of the SSE Corporate Governance Sector are Orient Securities Co., Ltd., China International Capital Corporation Limited, Haitong Securities Company Limited, Guotai Junan Securities Co. Ltd., Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co., Ltd., Fortune SGAM Fund Management Co., Ltd., Guotai Junan Allianz Fund Management Co., Ltd., AEGON-INDUSTRIAL Fund Management Co., Ltd., E Fund Management Co., Ltd., CCB Principal Asset Management Co., Ltd., Bank of Communications Schroder Fund Management Co., Ltd., Research Center for Financial Engineering of Nanjing University, Pengyuan Credit Rating Co., Ltd., China Chengxin Securities Rating Co., Ltd., and Chinese Federation for Corporate Social Responsibility.

List of Members of Expert Consultative Committee for SSE Corporate Governance Sector Appraisal
18 Jun 2010
List of Members of Expert Consultative Committee for SSE Corporate Governance Sector Appraisal   Name Title Hu Ruyin Director of the Research Center of the Shanghai Stock Exchange Chen Qiwei Board Chairman of Asia Business Consulting Co., Ltd. and Professor of Shanghai Jiao Tong University Li Weian Dean of Business School and Director of Research Center of Corporate Governance of Nankai University Li Xindan Dean and Professor of School of Management and Engineering of Nanjing University Liu Zhong Deputy General Manager of China Securities Index Co., Ltd. Lu Tong Director of the Corporate Governance Center of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Lu Hongbing Director of Grandall Legal Group (Shanghai) Xie Rong Vice President of Shanghai National Accounting Institute Wang Wei Chairman of the China Mergers & Acquisitions Association Bu Deying Deputy Director of the Economic Forecasting Department of the State Information Center Yu Lifeng Chief Accountant of the Foreign Economic Cooperation Office of the Ministry of Environmental Protection  

Changes on Calculation Date for Weight Factor
17 Jun 2010
SSE and CSI today together announced the changes on calculation date for weight factor. The weight factor is calculated using the closing data 5 trading days before the effective date of index rebalancing. Shanghai Stock Exchanges China Securities Index Co.LTD 2010.06.17

Adjustment List for SSE 180, SSE 50 and Other SSE Indices
17 Jun 2010
Adjustment List for SSE 180, SSE 50 and Other SSE Indices According to the index rules and the review discussions by Index Committee, SSE and CSI today together announced the semi-annual review results of SSE 180 and SSE 50 and other SSE indices. All changes will be effective as of July 1st 2010. Thereof, 18 constituents of SSE 180 and 4 constituents of SSE 50 are to be changed respectively, resulting additions and deletions lists are as following table. For more information of other SSE indices changes, please refer to CSI’s official website (www.csindex.com.cn). Adjustment list for SSE 180 index： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 600085 BEIJING TONGRENTANG 600082 HI-TECH DEVELOPMENT 600132 CHONG QING BREWERY 600173 Wolong Real Estate 600151 SHANGHAI AEROSPACE ELECTROMECHANICAL 600183 GUANGDONG SHENGYI SCI.TECH 600153 XIAMEN C&D 600198 DATANG TELECOM TECHNOLOGY 600159 DALONG WEIYE REAL ESTATE 600267 ZHEJIANG HISUN PHARMACEUTICAL 600251 GUANNONG FRUIT & ANTLER 600300 XUZHOU V V FOOD & BEVERAGE 600307 JIU STEEL HONGXING IRON &STEEL 600418 ANHUI JIANGHUAI AUTOMOBILE 600456 BAOJI TITANIUM INDUSTRY 600595 HENAN ZHONGFU INDUSTRY 600500 SINOCHEM INTERNATIONAL 600724 NINGBO FUDA 600522 ZHONGTIAN TECHNOLOGIES 600747 DALIAN DAXIAN ENTERPRISES HOLDINGS 600596 ZHEJIANG XINAN CHEMICAL 600759 Hainan Zhenghe Industrial 600600 TSINGTAO BREWERY 600999 China Merchants Securities 600694 DASHANG GROUP 601299 China CNR Corporation 600790 ZHEJIANG LIGHT & TEXTILE 601607 Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Holding 600846 TONGJI SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY 601618 Metallurgical Corporation of China 600886 SDIC HUAJING POWER 601788 Everbright Securities 601872 MERCHANTS ENERGY SHIPPING 601888 China International Travel 601991 DATANG POWER GENERATION 601989 China Shipbuilding Industry     Adjustment list for SSE 50 index： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 600018 SHANGHAI INTERNATIONAL PORT 601618 Metallurgical Corporation of China 600029 CHINA SOUTHERN AIRLINES COMPANY 601699 LU’AN ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY 600320 SHANGHAI ZHENHUA PORT MACHINERY 601788 Everbright Securities 600598 HEILONGJIANG AGRICULTURE 601998 CHINA CITIC BANK     Shanghai Stock Exchanges China Securities Index Co.LTD 2010.06.17、 Adjustment list for SSE indices (20100701 take effect)  

SSE 180, 50 Indices, CSI 300, 100 Indices Adjust Constituents
17 Jun 2010
According to the index construction rule and upon examination by the committee of index experts, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently announced the adjustment to the constituents of such indices as the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index. Besides, CSI also announced the adjustment to the constituents of such indices as the CSI 300, the CSI 100 and the CSI Cross-Straits 500 Index. The adjustment will come into effect on July 1, 2010. In the adjustment, 18 stocks of the SSE 180 Index will be replaced through adding such stocks as Everbright Securities Co., Ltd. (Everbright Securities) and Metallurgical Corporation of China Ltd. and deleting such stocks as Beijing Dalong Weiye Real Estate Development Co., Ltd. and Chongqing Brewery Co., Ltd. Four stocks of the SSE 50 Index will be replaced through adding Everbright Securities and China CITIC Bank Corporation Limited, etc. and deleting Shanghai International Port (Group) Co., Ltd. and China Southern Airlines Company Limited, etc. 18 stocks of the CSI 300 Index will be replaced through adding Huatai Securities Co., Ltd. (Huatai Securities) and China Merchants Securities Co., Ltd. (China Merchants Securities), etc. and deleting Guilin Sanjin Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine Co., Ltd., etc. Seven stocks of the CSI 100 Index will be replaced through adding Huatai Securities and China Merchants Securities, etc. and deleting Guangshen Railway Company Limited and Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Union Co., Ltd., etc. Meanwhile, constituents of the CSI 200, the CSI 700, the CSI 800 and the CSI 300 Sector will also be adjusted accordingly. Ten stocks of the CSI HK 100 Index will be replaced through adding China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co., Ltd. and Evergrande Real Estate Group Limited, etc. and deleting Television Broadcasts Limited and Guangzhou R&F Properties Co., Ltd., etc. Moreover, constituents of indices including the CSI Cross-Straits 500 Index will be adjusted accordingly. For specific lists, please refer to the announcements of the SSE and CSI, or visit the websites of the SSE (www.sse.com.cn), the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and CSI (www.csindex.com.cn). After the adjustment, the total market capitalization of the CSI 300 and the CSI 100 indices will cover 74% and 58% of the total on the SSE and the SZSE, respectively. The total market capitalization of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index will cover 76% and 60% of the total on the SSE, respectively. The total market capitalization of the CSI Cross-Straits 500 Index will account for 69% of the total on the markets across the straits. The annual reports of 2009 show that the net profits of the constituents of the CSI 300 and the CSI 100 indices are RMB974.881 billion and RMB863.944 billion, accounting for 89.97% and 79.73% of the total net profits of companies listed on the SSE and SZSE, respectively. The weighted average earnings per share of constituents of the CSI 300 and the CSI 100 indices are RMB0.4682 and RMB0.4805, or 13.92% and 16.91% higher than the average level of the companies listed on the SSE and SZSE, respectively. The net profits of the constituents of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index are RMB908.403 billion and RMB808.576 billion, accounting for 91.68% and 81.61% of the total net profits of companies listed on the SSE, respectively. The weighted average earnings per share of the constituents of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index are RMB0.4625 and RMB0.4817, or 10.94% and 15.54% higher than the average level of the companies listed on the SSE, respectively. In the most recent year, the dividend payment of the CSI 300 and the CSI 100 indices have reached a total of RMB301.187 billion and RMB276.491 billion, accounting for 91% and 84% of the total dividend payment of the A-share listed companies on the SSE and the SZSE, rspectively. The dividend payment of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index have hit a total of RMB277.762 billion and RMB251.614 billion, accounting for 93% and 85% of the total dividend payment of the A-share listed companies on the SSE, respectively. After the adjustment, the price-earnings ratios of the CSI 300 and the CSI 100 indices are 18.34 and 16.67, respectively, if calculated according to the closing prices on June 11, 2010, or 18.15% and 25.61% lower than the average A-share market level on the SSE and SZSE, respectively. The price-earnings ratios of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index are 17.05 and 15.55, or 13.71% and 21.30% lower than the average market level on the SSE, respectively.

List of Members of 5th SSE Index Experts Committee and 3rd CSI Index Expert Committee
17 Jun 2010
List of Members of 5th SSE Index Experts Committee and 3rd CSI Index Expert Committee   Name Title Wu Weicong Former Vice Chairman of Hong Kong's Securities and Futures Commission, Advisor to the China Securities Regulatory Commission Justin Pascoe Investment Director of Victorian Funds Management Corporation Mohammed Apabhai Director of Asia (excluding Japan) and Derivative Securities Strategist of Asia-Pacific Markets of Citigroup Global Markets Asia Limited Scott Lothian FOF Director of BEA Union Investment Management Limited Jane Leung Managing Director of BlackRock Asset Management North Asia Limited Liu Huimin President of China Life Insurance Asset Management Co., Ltd. Lin Yixiang Board Chairman of Tianxiang Investment and Consulting Co., Ltd. Xu Guoxiang Doctoral Advisor and Director of Research Center for Applied Statistics of Shanghai University of Finance and Economics Peng Gang Vice President of China Futures Association Zhan Yuyin Director of Global Investment Department of National Council for Social Security Fund    

SSE, CSI Set up New Index Experts Committee
17 Jun 2010
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently elected a new Index Experts Committee. The 10-member new committee consists of domestic and foreign experts and renowned scholars in fields of index compilation, index investment and market research. Among them, the numbers of domestic and overseas experts go halves, with Wu Weicong taking the position of Chairman. The committee is mainly responsible for the appraisal and suggestion on the index compilation method as well as the examination of qualification of the index constituents. The SSE and CSI committees of index experts, established in 2002 and 2006 respectively, conducted a parallel operation. So far, the quantities of SSE and CSI indices have hit 62 and 230, respectively. The Index Experts Committee has made outstanding achievement in the establishment of the SSE and CSI index systems and the development of the index-related business. It assures fair and scientific indices and exerts positive and notable impact on the market influence and credibility of the SSE and CSI indices. At the 1st committee meeting of 2010 on the same day, commissioners discussed the issues including the regular adjustment scheme and calculation of weight factor of constituents of such indices as the SSE 180 Index and the CSI 300 Index as well as the market of the Growth Enterprise Board.

Announcement on Adjusting Constituents of CSI 300, CSI HK 100 Indices
17 Jun 2010
Announcement on Adjusting Constituents of CSI 300, CSI HK 100 Indices   According to the index rule and upon examination by the committee of index experts, China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) has decided to adjust the constituents of such indices as the CSI 300, the CSI 100 and the CSI HK 100 indices on July 1, 2010. Among them, 18 stocks of the CSI 300 Index, 7 stocks of the CSI 100 Index and 10 stocks of the CSI HK 100 Index will be replaced. Part of the adjustment lists and reserve lists are as follows. For the other adjustment lists of the CSI indices, please visit the CSI website (www.csindex.com.cn).   List of adjustment to the CSI 300 Index: Delete Add Stock Code Stock Name Stock Code Stock Name 002275 Guilin Sanjin Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 601688 Huatai Securities Co., Ltd. 600276 Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine Co., Ltd. 600999 China Merchants Securities Co., Ltd. 600582 Tiandi Science & Technology Co., Ltd. 601788 Everbright Securities Company Limited 600648 Shanghai Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone Development Co., Ltd. 002304 Jiangsu Yanghe Brewery Joint-Stock Co., Ltd. 600270 Sinotrans Air Transportation Development Co., Ltd. 601989 China Shipbuilding Industry Company Limited 600859 Beijing Wangfujing Department Store (Group) Co., Ltd. 601299 China CNR Corporation Limited 600782 Xinyu Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. 601179 China XD Electric Co., Ltd. 600874 Tianjin Capital Environmental Protection Group Co., Ltd. 000725 BOE Technology Group Co., Ltd. 000917 Hunan TV & Broadcast Intermediary Co., Ltd. 601117 China National Chemical Engineering Co., Ltd. 000301 Jiangsu Wujiang China Eastern Silk Market Co., Ltd. 601877 Zhejiang CHINT Electrics Co., Ltd. 000822 Shandong Haihua Company Limited 601003 Liuzhou Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. 600176 China Fiberglass Company Ltd. 601139 Shenzhen Gas Corporation Ltd. 600158 China Sports Industry Group Co., Ltd. 601888 China International Travel Service Corporation Limited 600639 Shanghai Jinqiao Export Processing Zone Development Co., Ltd. 600863 Inner Mongolia Mengdian Huaneng Thermal Power Corporation Ltd. 600638 Shanghai New Huang Pu Real Estate Co., Ltd. 601607 Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Holding Co., Ltd. 600816 Anxin Trust & Investment Co., Ltd. 601801 Anhui Xinhua Media Co., Ltd. 000559 Wanxiang Qianchao Co., Ltd. 000961 Jiangsu Zhongnan Construction Group Co., Ltd. 000793 Huawen Media Investment Corporation 600300 V V Food & Beverage Co., Ltd.   List of adjustment to the CSI 100 Index: Delete Add Stock Code Stock Name Stock Code Stock Name 601333 Guangshen Railway Company Limited 601688 Huatai Securities Co., Ltd. 600010 Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Union Co., Ltd. 600999 China Merchants Securities Co., Ltd. 000027 Shenzhen Energy Group Co., Ltd. 601788 Everbright Securities Company Limited 600808 Maanshan Iron & Steel Company Limited (Mas C. L.) 002304 Jiangsu Yanghe Brewery Joint-Stock Co., Ltd. 600026 China Shipping Development Company Limited 601989 China Shipbuilding Industry Company Limited 600649 Shanghai Chengtou Holding Co., Ltd. 601299 China CNR Corporation Limited 000402 Finance Street Holding Co., Ltd. 600348 Shanxi Guoyang New Energy Co., Ltd.   List of adjustment to the CSI HK 100 Index: Delete Add Stock Code Stock Name Stock Code Stock Name 0902.HK Huaneng Power International, Inc. 1928.HK Sands China Ltd. 0511.HK Television Broadcasts Ltd. 2601.HK China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co., Ltd. 1138.HK China Shipping Development Company Limited 3333.HK Evergrande Real Estate Group Limited 2777.HK Guangzhou R&F Properties Co., Ltd. 1128.HK Wynn Macau Limited 0008.HK PCCW Limited 1211.HK BYD Company Limited 0069.HK Shangri-La Asia Limited 0960.HK Longfor Properties Co., Ltd. 0151.HK Want Want China Holdings Limited 0606.HK China Agri-Industries Holdings Limited 0349.HK Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (Asia) Limited 0639.HK Fushan International Energy Group Limited 0656.HK Fosun International Limited 1988.HK China Minsheng Banking Corp. Ltd. 2007.HK Country Garden Holdings Co., Ltd. 0489.HK Dongfeng Motor Group Co., Ltd.   Reserve List of the CSI 300 Index: Rank Stock Code Stock Name Rank Stock Code Stock Name 1 600703 San’an Optoelectronics Co., Ltd. 9 600825 Shanghai Xinhua Media Co., Ltd. 2 002336 Renrenle Commercial Group Co., Ltd. 10 600535 Tianjin Tasly Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 3 002294 Shenzhen Salubris Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. 11 002194 Wuhan Fingu Electronic Technology Co., Ltd. 4 600481 Jiangsu Shuangliang Air-conditioning Equipment Co., Ltd. 12 600511 China National Medicines Co., Ltd. 5 600893 Xi’an Aero-Engine Plc 13 600765 AVIC Heavy Machinery Co., Ltd. 6 600406 NARI Technology Development Company Limited 14 600754 Shanghai Jinjiang International Hotels Development Co., Ltd. 7 000655 Shandong Jinling Mining Co., Ltd. 15 000088 Shenzhen Yan Tian Port Holdings Co., Ltd. 8 600435 China North Optical-Electrical Technology Co., Ltd.         Reserve List of the CSI 100 Index: Rank Stock Code Stock Name 1 600383 Gemdale Corporation 2 000338 Weichai Power Co., Ltd. 3 601001 Datong Coal Industry Co., Ltd. 4 000768 Xi’an Aircraft International Corporation 5 601179 China XD Electric Co., Ltd.   Reserve List of the CSI HK 100 Index: Reserve List Rank Stock Code Stock Name 1 2020.HK ANTA Sports Products Limited 2 0845.HK Glorious Property Holdings Limited 3 0916.HK China Longyuan Power Group Corporation Limited 4 2331.HK Li Ning Co., Ltd. 5 1313.HK China Resources Cement Holdings Limited   China Securities Index Co., Ltd.   June 17, 2010  

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2010 Dragon Boat Festival
07 Jun 2010
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the 2010 Dragon Boat Festival according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2010" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2009] No. 42). The SSE will close from June 14 (Monday) to 16 (Wednesday), 2010 and open for trading on June 17 (Thursday), 2010. It will also close on the weekend on June 12 (Saturday) and 13 (Sunday), 2010. Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange June 4, 2010

SSE, CSI Update Industry Classification of Listed Companies
03 Jun 2010
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently published the adjusted industry classification of A-share listed companies on the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange according to the annual reports of 2009. A total of 114 A-share listed companies went through the adjustment. For the results of industry classification, please refer to the SSE website (www.sse.com.cn) and the CSI website (www.csindex.com.cn). The adjustment will take effect on July 1, 2010.

Notice of "Corporate Governance Sector" New Candidates
28 May 2010
To perfect listed companies' governance mechanism and promote the long-term sound development of capital market in China, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) officially launched the corporate governance sector in January 2008. According to the "Appraisal Measures of SSE Corporate Governance Sector", after the completion of annual reports disclosure, the SSE will adjust the constituents of the corporate governance sector and receive voluntary applications from new companies on the basis of the original 241 companies. It hereby publicizes the 17 new candidate companies for the public to review their governance and put forward constructive suggestions or comments. Please submit your suggestions or comments in written form or by email to China Securities Index Co., Ltd. before June 4, 2010. Contact methods: Fax: 8621-68829830 Email: zhliu@sse.com.cn Address for correspondence: Liu Zhenhua, China Securities Index Co., Ltd., 13/F, South Tower, Shanghai Stock Exchange Building, 528 South Pudong Road, Shanghai Postcode: 200120 China Securities Index Co., Ltd. May 28, 2010

List of New Candidate Companies for “SSE Corporate Governance Sector”
28 May 2010
List of New Candidate Companies for “SSE Corporate Governance Sector”   No. Stock Code Company Name 1 600173 Wolong Real Estate Group Co., Ltd. 2 600176 China Fiberglass Company Ltd. 3 600200 Jiangsu Wuzhong Industrial Co., Ltd. 4 600227 Guizhou Chitianhua Co., Ltd. 5 600369 Southwest Securities Co., Ltd. 6 600422 Kunming Pharmaceutical Corp. 7 600435 China North Optical-Electrical Technology Co., Ltd. 8 600488 Tianjin Tianyao Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 9 600546 Shanxi Coal International Energy Group Co., Ltd. 10 600614 Shanghai Dingli Technology Development Group Co., Ltd. 11 600657 Cinda Real Estate Co., Ltd. 12 600765 AVIC Heavy Machinery Co., Ltd. 13 600888 Xinjiang Joinworld Co., Ltd. 14 601009 Bank of Nanjing Co., Ltd. 15 601668 China State Construction Engineering Corporation Limited 16 601766 China South Locomotive & Rolling Stock Corporation Limited 17 601866 China Shipping Container Lines Co., Ltd.  

SSE Sees Improved Market Liquidity
12 May 2010
The overall market liquidity of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has been improving over the last decade, especially in 2009 when the SSE market saw a remarkable improvement in its liquidity thanks to the investors' increasing trading desire as a result of the swift upturn in the stock market, according to the "SSE Market Quality Report (2010)" released by the SSE recently. According to the analysis on the monthly data of 2009 in the report, the liquidity cost is related to the overall trend and capital of the market. To be specific, the liquidity cost in the 1st half of the year is higher than that in the 2nd half. Besides, the liquidity cost when the market is at a low ebb is higher than that when it is in its prime. The results of different boards show that the liquidity cost of SSE 50 Index's constituents is the lowest, followed by SSE 180 Index's constituents (excluding those of SSE 50 Index), with that of the B shares and ST shares (including *ST shares) the highest. In terms of the stock's float market capitalization, the larger the stock's market cap is, the lower its liquidity cost is. From the viewpoint of the stock price, the higher the stock price is, the lower its liquidity cost is. Last but not least, the stocks in the finance, insurance and mining industries enjoy the lowest liquidity cost while those in the social service sector see the highest one. According to the calculation result of the liquidity index, namely, the average of the buy-in amount for an increase of 1% in the stock price and the sell-out amount for an decrease of 1% in the stock price, the liquidity index of the SSE market in 2009 was RMB3.74 million, a surge of 146% compared with that in 2008 when the market trading was sluggish. In addition, with regard to the market depth, thanks to the rebound of the trading volume, the SSE's market depth in 2009 soared from that in 2008, or 149.7% and 148.1% up in its five best bid/ask quotes and ten best bid/ask quotes, respectively. As to the block trading cost, the price impact index resulted from trading RMB3 million stocks was 115 base points in 2009, a drop of 47.7% from that in 2008. All of the intraday volatility rate, excess volatility rate and return volatility rate on the SSE market in 2009 dropped from that in 2008 by 57, 26 and 46 base points, respectively. It is also pointed out in the report that the pricing efficiency of the Shanghai securities market has been greatly improved over the last decade. Although there was a fall in the intraday market pricing efficiency compared with that in 2007 and 2008, the trans-day market pricing efficiency reflected through the trans-day pricing efficiency coefficient and pricing error boasted a noticeable improvement, which means that the stock pricing errors in a day is able to be corrected within the following trading day. Moreover, with the rise of the market, investors' participation willingness increased. On the one hand, both of the average bid/ask quote and knock-down price were increased. On the other hand, the amounts of order application, conclusion and withdrawal were improved to some extent.

SSE Consumer 80, SSE Resource, CSI 300 Cyclical, CSI 300 Non-cyclical to Be Launched
06 May 2010
China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) has recently announced that SSE Consumer 80 Index (SSE Consumer 80), SSE Natural Resource Index (SSE Resource), CSI 300 Cyclical Industry Index (CSI 300 Cyclical) and CSI 300 Non-cyclical Industry Index (CSI 300 Non-cyclical) will be launched on May 28, 2010. The increasing demand for natural resources due to the sustainable rapid growth in China's national economy in recent years has resulted in the rise in the long-term value of all kinds of resources, which in turn drove the overall upturn in the performances of listed companies in resources sector. Consumption is one of the three engines for China's economic growth. In the backdrop of economic downturn, expanding domestic demand and simulating consumption has turned out to be a crucial measure to invigorate economy as well as an important link in the optimization and transformation of economic growth mode. Furthermore, the government work report in 2010 has listed the expansion of domestic demand as a long-term strategic guideline. From the prospective of securities market, resources and consumption are the long-term focus of the market. According to the published compilation schemes, SSE Consumer 80 selects 80 SSE-listed typical consumption stocks as its constituents from such sectors as discretionary consumption, staples consumption and health care while SSE Resource handpicks 50 SSE-listed typical stocks as its constituents from industries of energy, multi-metal and mining, and agricultural and forestry products. Statistics show that the market capitalization and free float market capitalization of SSE Consumer 80 are RMB1.2406 trillion and RMB652.4 billion, accounting for 62% and 59% of that of SSE-listed stocks of the same type, respectively, while that of SSE Resource are RMB4.3200 trillion and RMB673.2 billion, or 97% and 91% of that of SSE-listed stocks of the same type, respectively. Both CSI 300 Cyclical and CSI 300 Non-cyclical constituents are selected from that of CSI 300 Index. In accordance with the industry classification of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the constituents of CSI 300 Cyclical are made up of stocks in CSI 300 Index in five industries with strong cyclical features, namely finance and insurance, mining, transportation and storage, metal and non-metal and real estate, while the constituents of CSI 300 Non-cyclical consist of stocks in CSI 300 Index in other industries. The launch of the above two indices provides investors with a new tool to analyze the CSI 300 Index in terms of cyclical features. Statistics show that by May 5, 2010, the market capitalization of CSI 300 Cyclical and CSI 300 Non-cyclical had hit RMB10.9853 trillion and RMB3.9934 trillion, accounting for 48.47% and 17.62% of that of A shares on the SSE market, respectively, with the free float market capitalization of RMB3.0469 trillion and RMB1.8508 trillion, or 36.25% and 22.02% of that of A shares on the SSE market, respectively. It is learnt that some fund companies have been developing ETF products based on SSE Consumer 80 and SSE Resource.

Notice of Launching SSE Consumer 80, SSE Resource, CSI 300 Cyclical, CSI 300 Non-cyclical
06 May 2010
To diversify the index system and offer investors new analysis tools and investment targets, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) will launch SSE Consumer 80 Index (SSE Consumer 80), SSE Natural Resource Index (SSE Resource), CSI 300 Cyclical Industry Index (CSI 300 Cyclical) and CSI 300 Non-cyclical Industry Index (CSI 300 Non-cyclical) on May 28, 2010. For compilation schemes, please refer to the websites of SSE (www.sse.com.cn) and CSI (www.csindex.com.cn). Attachment: Compilation Schemes Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. May 6, 2010

Emerging Industries Indices, SSE Commodity Equity Index Launched Today
30 Apr 2010
China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) officially launched today the SSE Commodity Equity Index, the SSE Emerging Industries Index and the CSI Emerging Industries Index. The elaboration by Premier Wen Jiabao on November 3, 2009 at the Capital Science and Technology Communities Meeting on the development blueprint of strategic emerging industries has filled the market with expectations. Following the previous plan of RMB4 trillion investments and the program of revitalizing ten industries, it is anther important move by the central government to steer its economic policy on cultivation of strategic emerging industries for stimulating economic growth and adjusting economic structure. To reflect the overall performance of stocks of China's emerging industries, the Emerging Industries Indices include stocks in such fields as new energy, energy saving and environment protection, electric vehicles, information industry, biomedicine, bio-breeding, national defense and military industry, new materials, hi-tech manufacturing, modern services and marine industry. According to the compilation scheme, the SSE Emerging Industries Index selects the top 50 companies of emerging industries with most representativeness on the Shanghai market as its constituents, while the CSI Emerging Industries Index selects the top 100 companies of emerging industries with most representativeness on the Shanghai and Shenzhen markets as its constituents. Both indices adopt equal weight approach to track in a balanced way the influence of the industries and the stocks of listed companies on the indices. From the industry distribution, the SSE and CSI Emerging Industries Indices are able to cover the 11 emerging industries recognized so far, with a balanced distribution of the industries in the indices. The two indices, with the total market capitalizations and the free floating market capitalizations of RMB1.0965 trillion and RMB469.5 billion, and RMB1.7719 trillion and RMB839 billion, respectively, both accounting for over 85% of the companies of the same category in the constituent universe, boast good representativeness. Form the end of 2004 to April 2010, the two indices saw rises of 516.74% and 486.11%, respectively, compared with 181% and 206%, the growth rates of SSE 180 Index and SHSE-SZSE300 Index, respectively. In recent years, the wild price volatility of block commodity worldwide has brought fierce challenges to China's economic development, business operation and investors' decision-making. Closely related with the prices of block commodity, the stock prices of companies engaging in block commodity have drawn wide attention on the securities market. The SSE Commodity Equity Index is composed of 50 stocks with large market capitalization and ample liquidity in three major sectors including energy, basic industrial materials and agriculture industry on the Shanghai market, with an aim to reflect the overall situation of enterprises engaging in block commodity on the Shanghai securities market and the anticipation of investors on block commodity prices as well as provide a performance comparison benchmark and analysis tool for investing in these stocks. Statistics show that the total market capitalization and the free floating market capitalization of the index have respectively reached RMB4.3321 trillion and RMB692.6 billion, accounting for 93% and 79% of those of the socks of the same category on the Shanghai market, indicating the good representativeness of the index. From the distribution of the categories of the constituent stocks, the index has 17 stocks of energy, 22 of industrial materials and 11 of agriculture industry, accounting for 49%, 41% and 10% of the total. From the beginning of 2004 to April 29, 2010, the index surged by 174%, compared with 135%, the growth rate of the SSE 180 Index in the same period. It is learnt that thematic investment, characterized by selection of relevant investment targets across different industries and regions according to the theme, is a popular investment mode against the backdrop of economic globalization. The theme refers to the key factors on the market that will impose major influences on the economic development and the profits of the enterprises. By timely discovery of the long-term development trend of economic entities as well as the driving forces of the occurrence and continuance of the trend, thematic investment will take relevant industries and listed companies to be benefited from the trend into its investment scope. To facilitate the constant development of various thematic investments, the thematic investment indices, offering references and basis to investors in their investment, are seeing rapid development. This kind of indices, in addition to directly reflecting the performance of the theme, can also be used as the carriers for indexation investment. By copying thematic indices, a variety of thematic investments can be achieved in a transparent and low-cost environment. The SSE Commodity Equity Index and the SSE and CSI Emerging Industries Indices are developed for fund companies to deign new products. So far, fund products that track the three indices are under development.

SSE Listed Companies, Funds XBRL Taxonomies Approved
29 Apr 2010
XBRL International has recently confirmed in due form on its official website the accreditation of "Approved" for the XBRL taxonomies of listed companies and funds of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE). "Approved" certification, the top-level and most authoritative of its kind by XBRL International through demanding and time-consuming procedures, asks for high-standard technical specifications, business applicability and public assessment of the taxonomies. XBRL International released that the "Approved" certification had only been issued to part of the taxonomies of XBRL US prior to the accreditation for the SSE taxonomies. Under the leadership of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the SSE has made fruitful achievements since 2003 when it kicked off the XBRL research and application in China. Echoing suggestions from its XBRL expert committee, the SSE, based on the former "Acknowledged" certification, started in the second half of 2008 its application to XBRL International for "Approved" certification of its taxonomies of listed companies and funds in a bid to lay a solid technical foundation for promoting the XBRL application on China's capital market. The "Approved" accreditation, a major achievement and honor of China in the XBRL field thanks to the leadership of the CSRC, the endeavors of the SSE and the generous support of related parties, is a significant contribution by China's capital market to the development of XBRL at home and abroad.

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2010 Labor Day
23 Apr 2010
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces its market closure schedule for 2010 Labor Day according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2010" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2009] No. 42). The SSE will close from May 1 (Saturday) to May 3 (Monday), 2010 and open for trading on April 30 (Friday) and May 4 (Tuesday), 2010. To ensure the successful opening of the Expo, Shanghai has adjusted its Labor Day holiday schedule to the period from April 30 (Friday) to May 4 (Tuesday). Business departments of securities companies in Shanghai may encounter a different holiday schedule from some custodian banks, or be subject to traffic control of the Shanghai Municipal Government. Members who have business departments in Shanghai are expected to do a good job in risk prevention to ensure a safe market operation. Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange April 23, 2010

Assets Appraisal: Core of Pricing in Listed Companies' Assets Reorganization
16 Apr 2010
SSE and CAS jointly introduced the "Special Analysis Report on Assets Appraisal in Listed Companies' M&A and Reorganization in 2009" The Shanghai Stock Exchange and China Appraisal Society (CAS) have recently accomplished the compilation of the "Special Analysis Report on Assets Appraisal in Listed Companies' Merger, Acquisition and Reorganization in 2009". According to the report, assets appraisal, which has become the core link in pricing for listed companies' significant assets reorganization, plays a positive role in ensuring steady economic growth by way of M&A and reorganization in the post-financial-crisis era. M&A reorganization has been in full swing on China's securities markets in recent years. Listed companies' M&A and reorganization, the focus of public attention, has emerged as an important force for China's economic restructuring, industrial upgrading and benefit increasing. Assets appraisal, a kind of independent professional value evaluation service, has also grown into a crucial link in value discovery for M&A and reorganization and an effective means to standardize the pricing in assets trading. The report published by the SSE and CAS aims to elaborate on the functions, applications and supervision of assets appraisal in M&A and reorganization in a bid to better serve the construction of capital market. The report offers panoramic and classified statistics about the M&A, reorganization and assets appraisal on the securities markets in Shanghai and Shenzhen in 2009. Cases of assets appraisal involving M&A and reorganization are outlined and analyzed in a systematical way. After analyzing the status quo and difficult issues with abundant information, data and cases, constructive advice and suggestions are proposed based on achieved accomplishments. Experts hold that the report will improve the orderly advancement and in-depth development of listed companies' M&A and reorganization, perfect listed companies' standardized operation and governance and upgrade the quality of listed companies' information disclosure. Meanwhile, thanks to the report, assets appraisal institutions will better serve the M&A, reorganization and economic restructuring by finding out the development rules of assets appraisal and elevating the overall quality of assets appraisal industry. CAS Vice Chairman and Secretary-General Liu Ping and SSE Vice President Zhou Qinye led the research group made up of experienced experts in appraisal industry and supervision over listed companies. Relevant experts from practicing institutions participated in the preparation of the report.

Drive Sustainable Growth of Industry Integration, Promote Optimized Allocation of Market Resources
16 Apr 2010
An Interview with SSE Vice President Zhou Qinye and CAS Vice Chairman and Secretary-General Liu Ping for the "Special Analysis Report on Assets Appraisal in Listed Companies' M&A and Reorganization in 2009" The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Appraisal Society (CAS) have recently published the "Special Analysis Report on Assets Appraisal in Listed Companies' Merger, Acquisition and Reorganization in 2009", which elaborates on the functions, applications and supervision of assets appraisal in M&A and reorganization for better capital market construction. Heads of the research group, SSE Vice President Zhou Qinye and CAS Vice Chairman and Secretary-General Liu Ping, have recently spoken on the report in an interview. Reporter (R): The year of 2009 witnessed a record high in the total number of listed companies participating in M&A and reorganization as well as the total volume of traded assets. Could you please introduce to us the effect and influence of M&A and reorganization on capital market, industry integration and national economic development? Zhou Qinye (Zhou): Marked by relevant proposals submitted to shareholders' meetings for discussion, in 2009, a total of 95 companies listed on the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) initiated significant assets reorganization, with RMB320,596 million assets traded. More specifically, 60 SSE-listed companies made RMB247,111 million assets transactions while 35 SZSE-listed companies concluded RMB73,485 million assets deals. In 2009, 57 companies' significant assets reorganization was examined and approved by the Merger, Acquisition and Reorganization Examination Committee of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). After completion of the reorganization, the total transaction amount will hit RMB232.3 billion and exceed the total RMB183,138 million funds raised through A-share IPOs on SSE and SZSE in 2009. M&A and reorganization effectively boosted the industry integration and upgrading and improved the operational efficiency of real economy by injecting a great many high-quality assets into listed companies. It also enhanced the influence of capital markets on China's economy by showcasing the securities markets' functions in optimizing resources allocation. Under the backdrop of global financial crisis and its negative impact on real economy and securities markets in 2008, the CSRC published and implemented the "Administrative Measures for Significant Asset Reorganization of Listed Companies" on May 18, 2008. 2009, the first complete fiscal year that listed companies carried out M&A and reorganization under the new regulatory framework, presented listed companies with a golden opportunity to improve assets quality and economic benefit through a new wave of assets injection and overall listing after the completion of equity division reform. All this contributed to the economic upturn, improved economic operation, optimized economic structure and stable expectation from stock markets in 2009. M&A and reorganization has grown into a crucial move to ensure a stable economic growth in the post-financial-crisis era. R: Please update us on the major characteristics of listed companies' M&A and reorganization in 2009, the major industries conducting M&A and reorganization, the types of M&A and its scale and distribution. Zhou: Listed companies' M&A and reorganization in 2009 was featured in extensive industrial participation, large trading volume and centralized hot sectors, with a number of cases with an unparalleled influence. Industries conducted most M&A and reorganization are those closely related to industrial integration, restructuring and upgrading, including electric power, iron and steel, real estate, aviation and biomedicine. Out of the 95 listed companies on the SSE and SZSE proposing reorganization, 49, or 51.58%, will undergo significant change in major business after the reorganization. The industry seeing most assets injections is real estate development and operation, with 29 companies, or 30.53%. Based on analysis and study on 57 listed companies' significant assets reorganization schemes examined and approved by the CSRC Merger, Acquisition and Reorganization Examination Committee, we discovered the following facts in trading type, objective, industry characteristic, implementation efficiency and subject property of M&A and reorganization in 2009: First, multiple methods were adopted including targeted additional issuance, merger and assets replacement, among which targeted additional issuance stood out as the first choice for M&A and reorganization. In addition, the innovation in equity payment expanded new possibility for M&A and reorganization. Specifically speaking, 87.71% companies chose targeted additional issuance, with the issuance scale up to 74.79%. A total of 6 companies, or 10.52%, got merged, with the trading scale of RMB57,633 million, or 34.94%. In term of average trading scale of different businesses, the average amount for merger was more than RMB8 billion, with that for assets replacement of RMB393 million and that for targeted additional issuance, playing a leading role in M&A and reorganization, of about RMB2 billion. Second, the objective of M&A and reorganization has changed from the passive crisis recovery to the positive industry integration and upgrading. 22 listed companies, or 38.60%, conducted M&A and reorganization to fight against crisis. 21, or 36.84%, aimed to accomplish industry integration while another 11, or 19.30%, marched towards industry upgrading. The proportion of the latter two categories has amounted to 56.14%. With various goals on shoulder, M&A and reorganization has taken on a diversified and positive look. Third, a number of real estate enterprises plunged into M&A and reorganization or realized back door listing while some machinery manufacturing and chemical enterprises chose to be delisted. 16 out of 57 enterprises passing the examination of the CSRC Merger, Acquisition and Reorganization Examination Committee in 2009 were from real estate industry. The manufacturing industry boasted most M&A and reorganization from 19 enterprises, among which 6 changed their major business to other industries after the M&A and reorganization. Rationalizing the industrial distribution of listed companies is an urgent task for revitalizing national economy under the backdrop of internationalized competition. Fourth, the overall process of significant assets reorganization from issuance of planning announcement and trading termination to examination by the CSRC Merger, Acquisition and Reorganization Examination Committee was time-efficient and effective. Over 70% companies listed on the SSE and the SZSE launching M&A and reorganization completed within one year the whole process from issuance of planning announcement, trading termination, scheme disclosure, trading resumption, discussion on reorganization scheme at shareholders' meeting to examination by the CSRC Merger, Acquisition and Reorganization Examination Committee. The new high-efficient supervision flow highlighted itself by enabling enterprises to improve assets quality, profitability and mutual growth of shareholder's value within short time span. Fifth, listed companies owned by the state and controlled by state-held enterprises conducted most reorganization. In other words, over 70% assets purchasers (the reorganized party) and assets sellers (the reorganizing party) were state-owned enterprises or companies controlled by the state. The wish to be bigger and stronger and the administrative compliance can be easily noticed in the reorganization of both central and local state-owned enterprises. Moreover, it was also indicated that the market-oriented advantage could be maximized only when it is closely and practically integrated with the state layout and regulation. R: Assets appraisal has become a key link in pricing for listed companies' M&A and reorganization. How do you think of its functions, existing problems and ways to better supervision? Zhou: Assets appraisal, one of the core components in listed companies' M&A and reorganization, is a crucial foundation for trading pricing. Its pricing function in assets trading or equity exchange has been widely adopted, recognized and emphasized. In over 90% reorganization cases passing the examination of the CSRC Merger, Acquisition and Reorganization Examination Committee in 2009, the appraisal results were directly used as the target assets pricing bases. Assets appraisal information is also an important part of listed companies' information disclosure. Publicly disclosed information including assets appraisal reports and remarks can help investors fully analyze the reasonable values of the injected assets, judge and explore enterprises' future values and provide references for wise investments. All this will ensure investors' equal access to relevant information and protect listed companies and investors' interests by building qualified investor teams for securities markets and suppressing excessive speculation and blind investment. It should also be aware of that the in-depth and ever-changing practices of M&A and reorganization called for improvements in theory, standard and practical operation of assets appraisal. We should make further research, analysis and discussion on problems cropping up in practicing environment and process. For instance, listed companies, one of the trading parties in M&A and reorganization, were often in an inferior or unequal position and had very little voice in assets trading prices and methods. The appraisal appreciation rate of the assets listed companies planned to purchase was remarkably higher than that of the assets they planned to sell. A few appraisal institutions adopted different appraisal policies and methods in appraising overall assets and single asset items. The appraisal methods and results in some projects were influenced by the initiative held by the trading parties in bargaining, the objective of the transaction, the nature of the assets, the correlation of the transaction and the limitation of the design in reorganization scheme. All these factors greatly affected the final appraisal appreciation rate and value and jeopardized the sound operation of the transaction pricing mechanism. The above problems exposed both the improper intervention of man-caused factors in appraisal practices in the M&A and reorganization pricing mechanism and the deficiency in independence and professionalism of certain appraisal institutions and practitioners. Their harm to market fairness and efficiency deserve the vigilance of the practicing institutions and the attention from the regulatory authorities. We hold that the capability and quality of assets appraisal in serving capital market and M&A and reorganization business need to be improved by perfecting the industry supervision system, establishing laws, regulations, rules and standards of assets appraisal and raising practitioners' awareness of practicing risk and responsibility. Apart from solving the outstanding issue of "overlapping regulation" in the assets appraisal sector as soon as possible, effective supervision needs to be carried out by encouraging the internal M&A and reorganization of appraisal industry for a stronger better industry and introducing governance responsibility trainings for all parties of M&A and reorganization. The SSE will reinforce, in line with the unified deployment of the CSRC, its supervision over information disclosure in assets appraisal and urge listed companies and relevant information disclosure obligors to disclose information related to assets appraisal in a timely and complete manner. Furthermore, it will urge appraisal institutions to perform due diligence to safeguard the openness, fairness and justness of the securities market and let the assets appraisal and relevant information disclosure better satisfy the demands of listed companies in M&A and reorganization. All this will boost the standardized development of capital market and enhance the corporate governance level. R: What effect and influence did the assets appraisal make in listed companies' M&A and reorganization in 2009? Liu Ping (Liu): First of all, assets appraisal has become the core link in pricing for listed companies' significant assets reorganization. Based on the analysis on significant assets reorganization cases passing the examination of the CSRC Merger, Acquisition and Reorganization Examination Committee in 2009, the appraisal results were adopted as the pricing bases in 92.98% cases, among which the appraisal results were directly used as the final prices in 85.96% cases. Assets appraisal were conducted in 100% significant assets reorganization cases involving direct assets transactions, among which the appraisal results were directly used as the prices in over 93% assets trading cases. Assets appraisal, frequently used in assets pricing in M&A and reorganization, has played a positive role in value measuring, fair pricing, fair trading and non-related shareholders' rights and interests protecting. Besides, assets appraisal has improved the quality of reorganization. Thanks to the independent and professional appraisal service, all relevant parties can have a rational value judgment on target assets, which in turn stops poor-quality assets from slipping into listed companies through seemingly legitimate transactions and effectively wards off damage to interests of listed companies and other stakeholders. The assets appraisal industry supported the M&A and reorganization on the capital market in 2009, fueled the economic restructuring and industry upgrading and turned out to be a system cornerstone and value discover in a new wave of M&A. R: What characteristics did the assets appraisal display in listed companies' M&A and reorganization in 2009? How do you evaluate the adoption of appraisal methods? Liu: The characteristics of the assets appraisal business related to 57 listed companies' M&A and reorganization examined and approved by the CSRC Merger, Acquisition and Reorganization Examination Committee in 2009 can be detailed as follows: First, most trading parties chose to use the assets appraisal results as the pricing bases for M&A and reorganization transactions. According to the statistics of 57 listed companies whose significant assets reorganization was examined and approved by the CSRC Merger, Acquisition and Reorganization Examination Committee in 2009, 49 companies, or 85.96%, directly used the appraisal results as the prices. Assets sold by listed companies were often priced according to the appraised prices, with only a few exceptions. Second, the major appraisal method for assets purchased and sold in M&A and reorganization was still the combination of cost approach and income approach. The appraisal results were mostly based on the cost approach. However, the number of cases where the income approach was adopted for pricing was remarkably increasing. Among the 57 listed companies whose M&A and reorganization schemes were approved by the CSRC Merger, Acquisition and Reorganization Examination Committee, two or more than two methods were adopted in the appraisal of the purchased assets, with the combination of cost approach and income approach taking the lead. 44 companies took the cost approach and the income approach simultaneously. The appraisal method of listed companies' sold assets has also changed from the original cost approach to the combination of cost approach and income approach, or cost approach and market approach. But in compliance with the principle of prudence, all prices were subject to the appraisal results made according to the cost approach. In addition, the adoption of appraisal methods in M&A and reorganization has increasingly met international standards, with higher technical requirements and more proper applications. Third, the appreciation rate of listed companies' purchased assets in M&A and reorganization was notably higher than that of their sold assets. The 57 listed companies' appraisal results were far higher than their original book values. Both average appraisal appreciation rate and value of the assets purchased by the listed companies from their major shareholders were noticeably higher than that of the assets purchased by listed companies' major shareholders from listed companies. In addition, the appraisal appreciation rate and value of the assets including the intangible ones were far higher than that of other types of assets. For example, the average appraisal appreciation rate of the assets injected into listed companies was 132.48% while that of the assets sold by listed companies was lower than 10.57%. The types of injected assets with high appreciation rate were real estate and mineral resources. Most appraisal results of injected assets were based on the cost approach. But the income approach or the market approach was used for major assets. All other types of assets with high appreciation rate adopted the income approach for its appraisal results. Fourth, the M&A and reorganization appraisal market showcased a high centralization and localization degree. In the cases of 57 listed companies' reorganization, 77 firms involved in assets purchase and sale conducted assets appraisal, among which appraisal institutions registered in Beijing undertook the assets appraisal for 51 companies, or 66.23%. Appraisal institutions not registered in Beijing undertook the assets appraisal for the remaining 26 companies, or 33.77%. Upon further analysis, the non-Beijing-based appraisal institutions undertaking the assets appraisal of the above 26 companies were all local institutions. Among the 17 Beijing-based appraisal institutions, there was a great difference in the number of undertaken projects, ranging from 12 to 1. Institutions undertaking the most and the second most projects completed the appraisal for 21 companies, accounting for 27.27%. Those undertaking top five most projects accomplished the appraisal for 33 companies, or 42.86%. R: Which aspects of assets appraisal, the important value measuring means in listed companies' M&A and reorganization, should be improved in the days to come? Liu: To adapt to the requirements in assets appraisal business for listed companies' M&A and reorganization, the assets appraisal industry needs to make a further development in the following aspects. First, institutions should be encouraged to be stronger and better. The service quality and level will be improved to better serve listed companies' M&A and reorganization by fostering a batch of large-scale competitive institutions with lots of valuable talents in accordance with the "Guidance Opinion on Promoting Appraisal Institutions to Be Bigger, Stronger and Better". Second, the construction of supportive standards and rules should be speeded up. Focused on the characteristics of listed companies' M&A and reorganization, the formulation of supportive appraisal standards and rules will be quickened to cover the areas where disputes and problems exist and direct the standardized practicing of appraisers. Third, relevant personnel's business qualification and capability should be improved. Qualifications and capabilities of staff conducting appraisal business for listed companies' M&A and reorganization should be further improved, including the ability to understand and implement regulations and policies, the ability to understand the process of M&A and reorganization, the ability to master and apply the advanced appraisal techniques, the ability to collect the data and parameters and the ability to study relevant theories. Fourth, the service area should be expanded. The development of the assets appraisal industry and the improvement of appraisers' professional quality have paved the way for diversified extended services on the basis of value estimation service. Furthermore, extended services with high added values can prevent vicious competition at low level among appraisal institutions. Fifth, the theoretical research on appraisal techniques and the database construction should be strengthened. In line with the current characteristics and requirements of appraisal business in listed companies' M&A and reorganization, the theoretical research on appraisal techniques, particularly the income approach, should be reinforced to standardize the practical application of appraisal, including adjustment to appraisal thoughts in income approach and the basis and method of collecting appraisal parameters including income amount and discount rate. Besides, the construction of supportive database should be enhanced to facilitate data digging and utilization. Sixth, the cooperative supervision and information disclosure should be intensified. The integration of supervision over capital market with industry self-regulation should be furthered to form the cooperative supervision effects. Appraisal institutions will be encouraged to offer high-quality and high-efficient professional services by disclosing violations by appraisal institutions to let all relevant parties know the undesirable activities in appraisal practicing and providing "green channel" for appraisal institutions with good reputation for services. CAS will work closely with the SSE in continuous and diversified in-depth researches on assets appraisal on the capital market to enhance the technical level and practicing quality of assets appraisal in M&A and reorganization, improve the quality of assets appraisal disclosure of listed companies and boost the construction and development of appraisal industry and listed companies' governance culture.

Commodity Equity, Emerging Industries Indices to Be Launched
08 Apr 2010
Three indices, including the SSE Commodity Equity Index, SSE Emerging Industries Index and CSI Emerging Industries Index, will be published in due form on April 30, 2010, according to a recent announcement of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI). In recent years, the wild price volatility of block commodity worldwide has brought fierce challenges to China's economic development, business operation and investors' decision-making. Closely related with the prices of block commodity, the stock prices of companies engaging in block commodity have drawn wide attention on the securities market. The preparation and development of the SSE Commodity Equity Index will not only, by showcasing the changes of stock prices of the listed companies engaging in block commodity, provide a performance comparison benchmark and analysis tool for investing in these stocks, but also reflect the anticipation of investors on block commodity prices. According to the published index scheme, the index is composed of 50 companies with large market capitalization and ample liquidity in such industries as comprehensive oil and natural gas, exploration and production of oil and gas, refining and marketing, coal, nonferrous metals, mining, chemical fertilizers and pesticides, agricultural products, forest products and paper products. Statistics show that the latest total market capitalization and free floating market capitalization of the index have respectively reached RMB4,735 billion and RMB731.8 billion, accounting for 93% and 80% of those of the socks of the same category on the Shanghai market, indicating the good representativeness of the index. The SSE and CSI Emerging Industries Indices aim to mirror the development and change of the stocks belonging to strategic emerging industries integrating emerging technologies and industries. According to the published index scheme, the strategic emerging industries, mainly covering new energy, biomedicine, new materials and electrical automobile, feature stable and promising market demand of products, good economic and technological benefits and the capability of leading the rise of a number of industries. The SSE Emerging Industries Index selects the 50 most representative companies in the emerging industries on the Shanghai market as its constituents, while the CSI Emerging Industries Index chooses 100 on the Shanghai and Shenzhen markets. Both of the indices adopt the equal weight method. Statistics show that the SSE and CSI indices boast RMB1096.5 billion and RMB1771.9 billion total market capitalizations, and RMB469.5 billion and RMB839 billion free floating market capitalizations, respectively, both accounting for more than 85% of those of the companies of the same category in the constituent universe, indicating their good representativeness. It is learned that fund companies are developing ETF and index fund products based on the three indices.

Announcement on Publishing SSE Commodity Equity, Emerging Industries Indices
08 Apr 2010
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) will publish the SSE Commodity Equity Index, SSE Emerging Industries Index and CSI Emerging Industries Index on April 30, 2010, with an aim to enrich the index system and provide a new analysis instrument and investment target for investors. For compilation schemes, please visit the CSI website www.csindex.com.cn. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. April 8, 2010

Pilot Margin Trading, Securities Lending Launched in Due Form
31 Mar 2010
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) will accept, from March 31, 2010 onwards, securities dealers' transaction applications of margin trading and securities lending, according to a notice issued by the two exchanges to the six pilot securities dealers. All this marks that the business of margin trading and securities lending, after 4 year's careful preparation, has officially entered the market for operation. According to relevant officials of the SSE and the SZSE, the two exchanges, based on their preparatory work since 2006 and in light of the requirements of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, has enhanced promotion of the business in 2010. They have finalized, in a prudential manner, the scopes of the underlying securities, qualified securities representing margin in initial stage of pilot margin trading and securities lending, by adopting the principle of "from strict rules to flexible ones, from small to large number of participants, and gradual expansion of the business". In addition, they have also published the draft of the "Business Guide for Pilot Members in Margin Trading and Securities Lending" to detail the guidelines for doing business by securities companies. Meanwhile, they have worked with clearing corporations to complete the recovery test and simulation trading of the technical systems of relevant securities companies, as well as the verification test before their running the business, thus making full preparations for the safe run of margin trading and securities lending after launching the pilot. The officials of the two exchanges also mentioned that margin trading and securities lending, an innovative business so far with complexity and certain risks due to its leverage function and short selling mechanism, is not the game for every one as it requires participating investors to possess a considerable amount of professional knowledge, economic strength and risk tolerance. Before transaction, investors are asked to have a good knowledge of risk control measures and think it over after a full understanding of relevant rules of the business, particularly the underlying securities, qualified securities representing margin and their conversion rates for margin trading and securities lending and other key information published by securities companies at their business sites, on their websites or in other ways. Relevant officials said that during the pilot period, the exchanges would actively prevent market risks by paying close attention to the margin trading and securities lending on the market. They will disclose to the investors, through the trading system and the websites on a daily basis, the transaction, balance and other information of the underlying securities in the margin trading and securities lending. By monitoring before, during and after the transactions, they will timely detect and deter abnormal trading suspected of taking advantage of margin trading and securities lending to influence market prices. When there is serious transaction irregularity on the market, the exchanges will take such measures as suspending the transaction of the single or all underlying securities if necessary to ensure the stable run of the market. The officials concluded that the pilot margin trading and securities lending, a major move to promote the construction of fundamental systems on China's capital market, is of great significance for the perfection of the securities trading mechanism, the formation of the rational and standardized capital as well as the channels for securities convergence and exchange. To effectively control possible risks in the initial pilot period, securities companies are required to expand the business gradually by strict implementation of the system of customer appropriateness management to carefully select business outlets and participating customers applying for the business. Meanwhile, they are also asked to examine such key links as account management, entrusted application and transaction monitoring, and strengthen internal risk control to ensure standardized operation of the pilot business.

List of Constituents in Regular Adjustment to SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index
30 Mar 2010
List of Constituents in Regular Adjustment to SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index   (The adjustment will take effective on the first trading day in April 2010.)   Delete Add Bond Code Short Description Bond Code Short Description 122014 09 Yuyuan Bond 126005 07 Wuhan Iron and Steel Bond 126010 08 COSCO Bond 122940 09 Xianyang Urban Construction Investment Bond 122964 09 Longfor Bond 122028 09 Huafa Bond 122949 09 Changzhou Investment Bond 122021 09 Guanghui Bond 122994 08 Yunnan Investment Bond 122944 09 Zhuzhou Urban Construction Investment Bond 126002 06 Sinochem Bond 122991 08 Hainan Airlines Bond 120201 02 Three Gorges Bond 122988 09 Yulong Bond 126012 08 Shanghai International Port Bond 122983 09 Nanjing Iron & Steel United Bond   Attachment: SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index’s Weight Factor to Take Effect on the First Trading Day in April 2010   Index Code Securities Code Weight Factor 000061 120605 1 000061 122013 1 000061 122020 1 000061 122021 1 000061 122028 1 000061 122033 1 000061 122940 1 000061 122944 1 000061 122948 1 000061 122954 1 000061 122956 1 000061 122967 1 000061 122973 1 000061 122975 1 000061 122983 1 000061 122984 1 000061 122988 1 000061 122991 1 000061 122996 1 000061 126001 0.355293 000061 126005 1 000061 126008 1 000061 126011 0.50884 000061 126013 1 000061 126014 1 000061 126015 1 000061 126016 1 000061 126017 1 000061 126018 1 000061 126019 1    

Notice of Relevant Issues on Launch of Pilot Margin Trading, Securities Lending
30 Mar 2010
All pilot member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), agreed by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, will open in due form its margin trading and securities lending system to accept transaction applications from pilot members. To do a better job in the pilot work, it hereby notifies, according to the "Guidance Opinion on Pilot Margin Trading and Securities Lending of Securities Companies" and the "SSE Rules for Implementation of Pilot Margin Trading and Securities Lending", the relevant issues as follows. 1. Pilot members shall be well prepared for operational processes, technical systems (such as trading, settlement, monitoring and other systems), as well as capital and securities related to margin trading and securities lending. Besides, they shall carefully examine such business links as account management, entrusted application, transaction monitoring and mark-to-market mechanism for the successful launch and safe run of the business. 2. Pilot members shall take measures in various ways to fully explain to the customers the business rules of margin trading and securities lending for enhancing risk alerts, earnestly fulfill the responsibility of customer appropriateness management, and clearly announce to the customers, at their business sites and on their websites, the scopes of underlying securities, qualified securities representing margin and their conversion rates for the business of margin trading and securities lending. 3. Pilot members shall establish filing systems for data and information of margin trading and securities lending, and designate persons responsible for statistics and review of the relevant data and information, and ensure that the data and information filed with the SSE are true, accurate and complete. 4. Pilot members shall comply with laws and regulations and relevant requirements of the SSE rules, operate in a standardized way by strictly following their schemes for implementation of margin trading and securities lending, strengthen surveillance and management of their internal business, and take more measures in risk control. Besides, they shall not use unfair means in business competition. 5. Pilot members shall enhance the management of the customers' margin trading and securities lending by establishing necessary internal control mechanism and technical systems for timely warning and constraint of the customers' abnormal trading. Besides, they shall take effective measures to stop seriously abnormal transactions suspected of taking advantage of margin trading and securities lending to affect securities trading prices and volumes. 6. The SSE shall monitor the pilot members' margin trading and securities lending and inspect their business if necessary. The SSE shall impose from regulatory measures to disciplinary punishment on those who violate the SSE rules and relevant regulations. 7. Members shall timely inform the SSE of the major irregularities discovered in their pilot work of margin trading and securities lending, and send their suggestions on the systems, business processes and technical systems related to margin trading and securities lending. March 30, 2010

SSE, ECUPL Form Partnership
26 Mar 2010
The signing ceremony of the memorandum of cooperation held at the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) on March 15 marked the establishment of partnership between the SSE and East China University of Political Science and Law (ECUPL). Attending the ceremony at the SSE's trading floor were SSE President Zhang Yujun and Vice President Xu Ming, ECUPL President He Qinhua and Vice President Gu Gongyun as well as heads from relevant functional departments of both sides. Zhang said in his speech at the ceremony that it is a long-awaited partnership between the SSE and ECUPL. The SSE bears important missions and responsibilities for accelerating the construction of Shanghai international financial center, which asks for the participation of a large number of high-level professionals, including high-calibre personnel with expertise in legal area. The cooperation with ECUPL will not only further the sharing of resources and complementary advantages of the two parties, but also facilitate their innovation of personnel training systems and expand their social influence in relevant fields. All this is of great significance for both sides to join hands to turn Shanghai into an international financial hub. By signing the memorandums of cooperation, the SSE has had successive precedents of partnership with Fudan University, Shanghai Jiaotong University, and Shanghai University of Finance and Economics.

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2010 Tomb Sweeping Day
25 Mar 2010
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the 2010 Tomb Sweeping Day according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2010" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2009] No. 42). The SSE will close from April 3 (Saturday) to April 5 (Monday), 2010 and open for trading on April 6, 2010 (Tuesday). Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange March 24, 2010

Notice of Accepting Pilot Members' Applications for Business Permission of Margin Trading, Securities Lending
22 Mar 2010
All pilot member units， To do a better job in the pilot work of margin trading and securities lending, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will, from March 23, 2010 onwards, accept pilot members' applications for businesses of margin trading and securities lending. It hereby notifies relevant issues as follows. 1. A pilot member shall complete the change to its business license and the renewal of its permit for operation before applying for business permission of margin trading and securities lending. 2. A pilot member shall submit the application for business permission of margin trading and securities lending to the SSE in line with relevant requirements in the "SSE Rules for Implementation of Pilot Margin Trading and Securities Lending" and the "SSE Business Guide for Pilot Members in Margin Trading and Securities Lending" (attached below). 3. A pilot member shall handle procedures for opening relevant special securities and capital accounts at the Shanghai Branch of China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd., and file with the SSE. 4. A pilot member shall designate two business liaisons to keep in touch with the SSE for dealing with relevant issues concerning the business work of margin trading and securities lending in the pilot period. Please send the name list of the liaisons in written form to the SSE Membership Department. 5. The SSE shall inform the applicants of the review results in written form after examination. 6. Time for receiving relevant transaction applications by the SSE for margin trading and securities lending shall be subject to further notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange March 22, 2010

SSE Holds Symposium on Investor Education
17 Mar 2010
Forming qualified investor education teams to protect investors' rights and interests The awarding ceremony for "learning before service" investor education experts appraisal activity and investor education symposium was held at the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) on March 16. Attending the meeting were Deputy Director Cui Wei of Branches Coordination Committee (Investor Education Office) of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), Secretary Wan Dujuan of the SSE Discipline Inspection Committee, officials from the Securities Association of China and China Securities Investor Protection Fund Corporation Limited, prize-winners and heads of prize-winning units. The symposium aimed to improve the cooperation in investor education, service, supervision and protection through the communication between regulatory authority and securities companies and among securities firms while summarizing the recent appraisal activity. Prize-winning units and individuals were commended at the meeting, with prize-winning representatives Shenyin & Wanguo Securities and CITIC Securities speaking at the meeting. Besides, securities firm representatives exchanged ideas on their experience in frontline investor education work and construction of qualified investor education teams. It was agreed that the appraisal activity, a good opportunity for self-presentation, communication and mutual learning, deepened industry-wide understanding of both investor education and links between investor education and customer service and marketing. All the attendees committed themselves to forming qualified investor education teams and incorporating investor education into every step of their business processes to guide investors into rational investment. Cui stressed that though investor education still has a long way to go, thanks to the joint efforts of all industry participants, initial achievements have been gained, with securities institutions starting to take the initiative in diversified investor education campaigns and investors holding wise investment concept. However, heavier investment in investor education in terms of human and material resources is expected to be made to earnestly implement the investor appropriateness management system to cultivate larger qualified investor teams by improving the pertinence and effectiveness of investor education and strengthening the risk tolerance appraisal of all kinds of investors, particularly green hands at investment, during the introduction of new products and businesses. Wan stated in her wrap-up speech that sticking to the ultimate goals of protecting investors' rights and interests and breeding learned, experienced, risk-conscious and financially strong investors, the SSE will, in line with the arrangements and requirements of the CSRC, continue to deepen the investor education concept and supervise its members' investor education work through the "Six Ones" project in a bid to rationalize the investor education system. Wan concluded that securities companies, the backbone of the frontline investor education work, are expected to improve their work in the following aspects: (1) Strategic importance should be attached to investor education with a view to integrating investor education with customer service and marketing; (2) Effective ways and means for investor education should be explored while the establishment of system is reinforced. All units should develop and set up investor classified management and appropriateness management systems to manage the investors in accordance with such criterions as assets status, investment knowledge and experience and risk awareness and tolerance while innovating and classifying securities varieties and businesses; (3) Training for investor education staff should be beefed up to foster every participating employee into qualified one. Workgroups of brokerage business heads should be established to analyze investors' demands and market highlights to facilitate internal coordination and management as well as external communication and reporting; (4) Investor complaint system should be perfected by optimizing complaint and inquiry procedures and upgrading service quality to create a high-efficient investor dispute resolution mechanism.

Forming Qualified Investor Education Teams to Protect Investors' Rights & Interests
15 Mar 2010
The "learning before service" investor education experts appraisal activity, hosted by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), was rounded off. The 2010 "learning before service" investor education experts appraisal activity, hosted by the SSE under the auspices of the Investor Education Office of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Securities Association of China, China Securities Investor Protection Fund Corporation Limited and the mass media, was rounded off on March 12. Securities companies attached importance to the activity and carefully organized and prepared. Out of the over 200 applicants recommended by securities firms, six securities companies (Shenyin & Wanguo Securities, CITIC Securities, Xiangcai Securities, Zhong Cheng Securities Brokerage, China Dragon Securities and Huaan Securities) won the awards for outstanding organization while 6, 10, 20 and 64 individuals were awarded first, second, third and merit prizes after the strict appraisal process from preliminary reviews, online voting to professional committee examinations. The appraisal activity is of great significance. First, it will enhance the awareness of the importance of the posts as well as the work of investor education. Second, it will reinforce the initiative of the investor educators so as to foster a qualified team for investor education as well as customer services. Third, it will facilitate sharing of educational experience and needs on a wider platform by enhancing communication between regulatory authorities and securities companies as well as between securities companies and investors. In 2010, the SSE will continue to deepen the investor education concept and supervise its members' investor education work in a bid to rationalize the investor education system through the "Six Ones" project under the guideline of "integrating investor education with investor protection, supervision and service". Moreover, the SSE will soon hold the awarding ceremony for the appraisal activity for the prize-winning investor education experts. For winners list, please visit http://222.73.229.9/sseportal/ps/zhs/edu315vote.html.

Geng Corrects Three Misunderstandings on Int'l Board
09 Mar 2010
Geng Liang, member of the CPPCC National Committee and Governor of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), clarified ambiguous and incorrect assumptions in development of International Board in Beijing yesterday. According to Geng, the introduction of International Board would benefit both the development of domestic capital market and the building of Shanghai into an international financial hub and would by no means reduce itself into a global ATM machine as some concerned. Three Major Positive Effects of Int'l Board "The decision of listing eligible overseas companies on domestic market, or introducing International Board, is made based on the consensuses reached through the Sino-US strategic economic dialogues and Sino-UK economic and trade dialogues. For China's capital market, the launch of International Board will bring about benefits in three aspects," said Geng. First of all, the launch of International Board, a milestone in China's opening-up of its capital market, offers domestic investors a new channel to purchase shares of large overseas companies with RMB, which is by all means a progress. Relevant insiders also hold that the opening of International Board is especially conducive to the investment in overseas enterprises by investors who are inexperienced in overseas investment and unfamiliar with foreign law and accounting systems. Besides, the development of International Board will exert positive influence on the construction of blue-chip market, thus promoting the growth of China's capital market. "The ultimate goal of the SSE is to build a blue-chip market, which includes high-quality Chinese and foreign listed companies," added Geng. Finally, International Board means a lot to building Shanghai into a global financial center. "The listing of overseas companies on domestic market will help pool human resources, capital and institutions to Shanghai," noted Geng. No Possibility for "Int'l ATM machine" As to the concern about misusing International Board as "a global ATM machine", Geng explained that under the arrangement that free exchange is forbidden under the RMB capital account, the A shares on the future International Board can't be exchanged freely with the shares issued overseas. Thus, there is no possibility for "a global ATM machine". Furthermore, "the large international companies, who apply for going listed on the SSE, have already got listed on overseas stock exchanges. Their listing on Chinese market is actually a behavior of refinancing. According to internationally accepted practices, the prices for refinancing generally shouldn't exceed those on local secondary market." Therefore, it is not qualified to be "a withdrawing behavior" in terms of scale. Geng also stated that the launch of International Board would not impact Hong Kong's position as an international financial center. "The support to Hong Kong market instead of affecting its construction of international financial hub by the return of H shares to A shares is a case in point. During the 20 years' development of China's capital market, 60 domestic enterprises went listed in Hong Kong, which vividly proved that the development of domestic capital market boosted Hong Kong market and exchange." Substantial Benefits of Int'l Board Insiders hold that the benefits of initiating International Board are substantial. Apart from those mentioned by Geng, there are at least five more major benefits. First, the new board will relieve the pressure from foreign exchange reserve, which accords with the development transition of national economy from capital attraction to technical, managerial and human resources introduction. Second, the new board will attract overseas natural resources and energy enterprises to get listed in China, thus helping break their capital barrier towards China's capital by counteracting the increase in international commodity prices with equity income. Third, the new board provides a channel for Chinese investors to share the income from business conducted by multinational companies in China while changing the situation that multinational companies can only offer job opportunities to Chinese. Fourth, the corporate governance of domestic listed companies will be improved thanks to the model effect of overseas companies listed in China. Last but not least, the new board will help multinational companies integrate themselves with China' economy to make greater contribution to the development of China's economy.

Investors Gain RMB2.2 Trillion Net Profit on Shanghai Market in 2009
09 Mar 2010
SHSE-SZSE300 ETF is ready for launch, with one-on-one bond spot trading and repo under research. "The cross-market SHSE-SZSE300 ETF will be launched soon as the SSE is making efforts to introduce cross-border ETF this year," said the National Committee Member of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference and also Governor of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) Geng Liang in Beijing yesterday, "The Shanghai market saw a total net profit of RMB2.2 trillion among investors last year." "The overall structure of the SHSE-SZSE300 ETF tracking 93 stocks on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and 207 stocks on the SSE has so far been rounded off, with details for business rules, technology, settlement and registration finalizing," said Geng. Overseas exchanges have showed their great interest in cross-border ETF. So far, 12 foreign exchanges and index companies have authorized the SSE with use of their indices to formulate and list ETF products on the SSE. Besides, a few fund companies are also active in this innovative business. "We expect the cross-border ETF, though still under study, to be introduced in this year by overcoming the difficulties mainly in technology and operation," added Geng. Researches have been conducted for one-on-one bond spot trading and repo. "We have asked for coordination of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. to carry out unsecured settlement in full amount while studying on the one-on-one bond spot trading and repo mainly targeting at institutional investors, which as a result will open a risk-controllable mode of trading and settlement for some bonds at a relatively lower grade," said Geng when taking about the development of bond market. Moreover, the SSE is also considering the following aspects in developing the bond market in this year. First, efforts should be made to cultivate more institutional investors on the bond market by taking opportunity of the return of listed banks on the exchange for bond business. Second, active endeavors should be made to promote the development of corporate bonds of listed companies. By February 2010, 11 SSE-listed companies had issued corporate bonds, with a total of 20 companies so far approved by the China Securities Regulatory Commission for issuing the bonds. It is predicted that dozens of companies will have the intention to follow suit. Third, researches should be made to coordinate with China Government Securities Depository Trust & Clearing Co., Ltd. (CDC) for better communication between CDC and the SSE, the two backstage supporters for the bond market, with an aim to form a united and joint bond market. At present, among the 14 listed commercial banks, 10 have chosen the SSE for their bond business. Net profit of investors on the SSE totals RMB2.2 trillion last year. According to Geng, the Shanghai market ran in a much more stable condition in 2009. The number of days seeing a 2% rise or drop of the SSE Composite Index is 118 in 2008, accounting for 44% of all the trading days, but the figure of lat year is only 62, or 25% of the total. Besides, the investors on the Shanghai market, benefited from a higher profitability, realized a total net profit of RMB2.2 trillion in 2009 after putting altogether the gains and losses on the whole market. Among them, small-and-medium-sized investors and institutional investors grabbed RMB1.25 trillion and RMB1 trillion, respectively. Geng said that the SSE achieved a fast growth in market capitalization from RMB9.47 trillion in 2008 to RMB18.74 trillion at the end of 2009, or up 90%, trading volume from RMB73.3 billion on a daily basis in 2008 to RMB142 billion last year, or up 94%, financing amount from RMB223.8 billion in 2008 to RMB334.3 billion in 2009, or up 49%, and other major indicators. Since the equity division reform, the SSE has attracted RMB1.4 trillion through financing, or 2.8 times of the total in the previous 15 years. Last year, the SSE ranked No. 5 among the major exchanges in the world in terms of financing amount. Last but not least, the new generation trading system of the SSE, with a smooth run last year, has provided the market with more security and stability. What's more, the SSE's levels of regulation, services and investor education have also been elevated to a great extent.

Joint Statement of FTSE, FXI, SSE, SSE InfoNet on Long-standing Issue of "FXI"
03 Mar 2010
FTSE International Limited (FTSE), FTSE Xinhua Index Limited (FXI), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and SSE's subsidiary SSE InfoNet Ltd. (SSE InfoNet), which is granted the exclusive right to operate the SSE's market information by the SSE, made a joint statement on properly solving the long-standing issue of FXI's use of the SSE's market information without permission of the SSE and SSE InfoNet as follows: I. FTSE, FXI, SSE and SSE InfoNet have signed and promised to earnestly fulfill the memorandum of understanding on solving relevant long-standing issue. II. FTSE and FXI respect all SSE's rights and interests over its securities information and SSE InfoNet's relevant rights and interests resulting from the exclusive right to operate the SSE's securities information granted by the SSE, and defer to the judicial decision made by Chinese court on the case of dispute over license contract on securities information between FXI and SSE InfoNet. III. FTSE and FXI confirmed that from the day when the second instance of the case of dispute over license contract on securities information between FXI and SSE InfoNet took effect in 2007 till now, FXI has continuously used the SSE's market information without permission of the SSE and SSE InfoNet. In this respect, FXI has authorized FTSE to negotiate and sign agreements on economic compensation for previous use and license application for future use with the SSE and SSE InfoNet as soon as possible. IV. FTSE and FXI promised to strictly observe the regulations of the SSE and SSE InfoNet on use of the SSE's securities information, including business rules, contracts and memorandums. V. FTSE will phase in the cooperation with the SSE and SSE InfoNet in the field of securities information including index, particularly the ETF cooperation project of listing of FTSE Global Equity Index Series on the SSE, in the principle of "mutual respect for mutual benefit in the future after learning lessons form the past". The SSE and SSE InfoNet will treat the operation rights, ownership and relevant rights and interests of the indices compiled by FTSE with due deference while FTSE promised that the operation of its indices would not infringe relevant rights and interests over the securities information enjoyed by the SSE and SSE InfoNet and FTSE would not break relevant stipulations made between them. FTSE International Limited FTSE Xinhua Index Limited Shanghai Stock Exchange SSE InfoNet Ltd.

SSE: Vote Your Investor Education Experts Online
01 Mar 2010
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) is looking for experts in investor education through a "learning before service" appraisal activity aiming to effectively enhance the quality of the educational team by cultivating more qualified staff in investor education. Investors can vote online from March 1 to 5 for their favorite education experts by acquiring information, on the SSE's investor education website (http://edu.sse.com.cn), about the 100 candidates standing out from the preliminary review, including their resumes, feelings for their job and their self-recommendations. It is learnt that securities companies, thinking highly of the initiative, launched the procedures of internal application, appraisal and recommendation upon receiving the notice of the activity. By the deadline for application at the small hours on February 25, 2010, the SSE had received applications from a total of over 200 candidates. "Our management has already started preparation before the Spring Festival, for they place much importance on the program, which will provide recognition and encouragement for the front-line staff engaged in investor education," said a person from a securities company responsible for internal appraisal and recommendation. It can be judged from the applications that the competition, given the enthusiasm of the securities companies, will be fierce since all the candidates are of high quality in all aspects. "The initiative, of great significance, will not only arouse the industry's awareness on investor education and its importance, but also build up exchanges between securities companies. I will feel proud to participate in the activity even if I lose the competition," said a candidate in his recommendation. The top 36 candidates ranked according to their votes in the online competition will be the winners vying for the big prize in the final round. Professionals from the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Securities Association of China, China Securities Investor Protection Fund Limited Liability Company and the media will form an expert appraisal committee for the final ranking. Let's wait and see who will be named experts in the 1st investor education appraisal sponsored by the SSE. [Click here to Vote]

SSE to Select Investor Education Experts
24 Feb 2010
Protection of the interests of investors is a top priority of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE). As the organizer for transactions on securities market, the SSE, under the guideline of integrating education, supervision, services and protection for investors, has always been improving systems and rules and helping investors to protect themselves through various educational activities. As investor education relies on knowledge dissemination, the front-line educational personnel must be qualified, for they can neither tell the right things and ideas to their customers unless they have mastered the knowledge and understood the risks, nor recommend the right products to the appropriate customers unless they understand the  customers' conditions. Thus, the SSE plans to select experts in investor education through a "learning before service" appraisal activity started before March 15, 2010, in a bid to effectively improve the quality of the investor education team and cultivate more qualified educators. In a notice issued to securities companies, the SSE required that all companies should recommend candidates for investor education experts before February 24. "We think highly of the activity and immediately launched internal application and selection process after receiving the notice. Our staff is enthusiastic about the appraisal," said a broker engaged in investor education for many years. It is learnt that the SSE, doing a lot of preparatory work for the selection, has designed a special appraisal process from preliminary review, online voting to professional committee examination. To ensure openness, fairness and justice of the process, the committee will invite experts from the China Securities Regulation Commission, the Securities Association of China and the media. The SSE will give honors to the winners and make publicity of their stories. According to an official, the "learning before service" appraisal activity is of great significance. First, it will enhance the awareness of the importance of the posts as well as the work of investor education. Second, it will help foster a qualified team for investor education as well as customer services by motivating them to master the knowledge. Third, it will facilitate sharing of educational experience and needs on a wider platform by enhancing communication between regulatory authorities and securities companies as well as between securities companies and investors.

Public Bidding Invitation for 21st SSE Joint Research Plan
24 Feb 2010
To boost the research, marketization and standardization of China's securities market, accelerate the market innovation and provide decision-making support for leadership, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) had run 20 SSE Joint Research Plans. The plans aim to make full use of relevant domestic and foreign research resources, make intensive research on hot and frontier issues of China's securities market, improve market research, and promote exchange of excellent research results. All this is to provide independent, rational, high-level, forward-looking policy suggestions and implementation schemes for the development of China's securities market. To ensure the transparency and accessibility and enhance the quality and efficiency of the research plan, the SSE seeks bidders for research subjects from home and abroad. Major research subjects of the 21st SSE Joint Research Plan include: 1. Investment orientation of funds raised by blue-chip companies; 2. Classified regulation on listed companies; 3. Connected transaction of listed companies; 4. Peer competition of listed companies; 5. Psychology of securities fraud victims and protection of investors; 6. New ETF (including bond ETF and petroleum ETF) design and relevant research; 7. ETF duplication methodology; 8. Non-standardized products and trading mechanism; 9. Impact of algorithmic trading on trading system; 10. Cross-market supervision over stock index futures; 11. Legal protection of domestic listing of overseas enterprises as well as domestic shareholders' equity; 12. Perfection of China's legal system of merger, acquisition and reorganization of domestic listed companies; 13. International comparison of legal systems of margin trading and securities lending; 14. Innovation of products on the exchange's bond market; 15. Innovation of trading mechanism after commercial banks enter into the exchange's bond market. Institutional applicants can download application forms at the SSE website (http://www.sse.com.cn) and send return receipts to expert3@sse.com.cn (Written materials are not required), with the deadline of March 5, 2010. For details, please contact the SSE Research Center via telephone, fax, etc. Liaisons: Mr. Fu and Ms. Lu Tel: 68804471, 68800095 Fax: 021-68813828 Shanghai Stock Exchange February 23, 2010

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2010 Spring Festival
01 Feb 2010
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the Spring Festival of 2010 according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2010" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2009] No. 42) as follows: 1. The SSE will close from February 13 (Saturday) to February 19 (Friday), 2010 and open for trading on February 22 (Monday), 2010. It will also close on the weekends on February 20 (Saturday) and February 21(Sunday), 2010. 2. Relevant clearing issues will be carried out according to the arrangements of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. 3. To ensure the normal trading after the holiday, the SSE will conduct a linkage test towards its trading system (including the block trading system and the comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities) from 9:30 to 12:00 on February 21 (Sunday), 2010. Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. January 29, 2010

SSE Holds Sum-up Meeting for Subjects of 20th Joint Research Plan
01 Feb 2010
The sum-up meeting for research subjects of the "20th Joint Research Plan", sponsored by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), was held in Shanghai on January 29, 2010. Research results were appraised, discussed and summed up at the meeting presided over by SSE Vice President Liu Shian. Since its introduction in 2000, the "SSE Joint Research Plan", a well-established brand for research on China's securities market, has made fruitful achievements thanks to the communication and exchange between the SSE and major securities research institutions. During the first decade of the 21st century, an accumulation of 187 researches was completed through 20 Plans, with 229 research reports with high theoretical level and practical value produced. Thirteen research reports under eight subjects were produced after a probe into the two themes of the 20th Plan of "optimization of governance of listed companies" and "innovation of SSE products". The eight pertinent front-subjects, i.e., "role, function and duty of independent directors of listed companies", "management of state-owned assets and optimization of governance structure of listed companies controlled by central state-owned enterprises", "mechanism to curb capital occupation by major shareholders of listed companies", "design of incentive system for senior management of listed companies", "analysis on the modes of overall listing of listed companies and their effects", "cross-border ETF: innovation of index-linked products (including ETF and ETC)", "overseas inverse and leveraged ETF" and "trading characteristics of associated account groups", are all hot, difficult and major problems cropping up in the securities market development and listed company governance. Attending the meeting were subject leaders and experts and scholars from the China Securities Regulatory Commission, securities companies, fund management companies and relevant colleges and universities. Subject leaders introduced the main contents of the subject reports and their research, and then the experts made comments on the research results. Experts all held that the subject research results, of great theoretical value and practical significance, are positive to the optimization of governance of listed companies and innovation and development of the capital market in China.

Geng: New Share Issuance System Reform Sees Staged Success
30 Jan 2010
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will continue to beef up its communications and cooperation with all sides to promote the listing of excellent enterprises in various industries such as finance, energy, ordnance, culture, railway and nuclear power. SSE Governor Geng Liang addressed at the "Seminar on New Share Issuance System Reform" on January 29 that new share issuance infused new blood into the capital market and pushed the listed companies and the capital market to grow bigger and stronger. According to Geng, the reform on the new share issuance system last June has achieved phased success in laying a foundation for the secondary market development and driving the SSE's blue-chip market operation. Yet the bourse still lags behind the mature markets in the scope and depth. In 2010, the SSE will impel the construction and development of the blue-chip market and carry out key tasks in four areas. Firstly, it will further support the listing of high-quality companies. Since the equity division reform, the SSE has seen the listing of 43 large and medium-sized enterprises in succession, whose market capitalization accounts for 48% of the SSE's total, with their profits accounting for 60% of the total profit made by over 800 SSE-listed companies. The bourse will step up communications and cooperation with all sides to promote the listing of leading enterprises in various industries such as finance, energy, military industry, culture, railway and nuclear power. Secondly, it will boost the merger, acquisition and reorganization of listed companies. It will take vigorous measures to create a more favorable market environment for the M&A and reorganization of listed companies, make stock adjustment to optimize their structures, urge them to grow bigger, stronger and better. Thirdly, it will actively promote the international board construction. Fourthly, it will enhance the listed companies to improve their quality and corporate governance.

Deepening New Share Issuance System Reform Arouses Wide Concern
30 Jan 2010
New Share Issuance System Reform Sees Staged Success Zhu Congjiu asks price inquiry institutions to strengthen self-regulation management, express true will and enhance public credibility "We should rationally recognize and carefully study the new conditions in the new share issuance system reform," said Zhu Congjiu, Assistant to Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, in Shanghai yesterday. Zhu asked the price inquiry institutions to "strengthen self-regulation management, upgrade research and pricing capabilities, enhance public credibility, and express true will in the quotation". The Securities Association of China (SAC), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) held the "Seminar on New Share Issuance System Reform" in Shanghai yesterday. In his keynote speech, Zhu expressed that the new share issuance system reform should be promoted step by step with an eye on China’s actual conditions. New circumstances arose during the reform, such as the high price-to-earnings ratio in the issuance, the investment value reports by lead underwriters requiring enhanced objectiveness and public credibility, and the overall high quotations of price inquiry institutions, which call for rational recognition and careful study. Zhu stressed that combining the common approach of the developed markets with China’s actual conditions is no easy job. All market participants need to make concerted efforts to integrate the general rule of the capital market with the market demand. Relevant institutions should abide by the principles of self-regulation, good faith and responsibility. The lead underwriters should pay more attention to investors’ interests, the long-term benefits and the reputation on the market. The price inquiry institutions should intensify the self-regulation management, upgrade the research and pricing capabilities, enhance public credibility, and express true will in the quotation. According to Zhu, the capital market has played an important role in assisting the national economy in face of the financial crisis. In 2009, the total financing amount of the A share market was RMB446 billion, with the total bank loans of RMB9.6 trillion. Enterprises’ fund raising through the capital market helps reduce the credit risks of banks and eliminate the risks of the financial system. As the new share issuance system reform has seen staged success, there are wide discussions on such questions as high price-to-earnings ratio in the issuance, excessive fund raising, and whether the quickened new share issuance will affect the market behavior. Therefore, the SAC and two exchanges held the seminar, where the regulators and market participants exchanged views on hot issues to form a rational understanding of the new share issuance and think about the reform direction. Vice Mayor Tu Guangshao of Shanghai spoke at the meeting that the leading and driving function of the capital market has become prominent in building the city into an international financial center. While the new share issuance system is essential to the capital market, the new share issuance, the capital market and the national economy development are mutually influencing and promoting one another. Sticking to market-oriented reform and further improving price inquiry and pricing mechanism Attendees all agreed that the new share issuance system reform, launched last June, has seen positive results. President Chen Geng of Guotai Junan Securities Co., Ltd. said the reform was successful in strengthening the regulatory mechanism on inquirers, upgrading the authenticity of quotations and demonstrating the price discovery function of the market. The price rising on the listing day of new shares decreased. The subscription based on the amount of capital before the reform was suppressed. The online lot-winning ratio saw distinct growth, with the proportion of minor investors’ shares obtained from lot-winning jumped. Besides, the dynamic price-to-earnings ratio of new share issuance was close to the average market evaluation. Mao Zhiwei, a retail investor representative, also acknowledged the benefits of the reform. Referring to the high price-to-earnings ratio, he said that the new share pricing should be determined by the market, since there will be objections no matter the new share issuance price is high or low. However, supervision should be conducted over the listed companies’ information disclosure to ensure that the raised funds are used in their major businesses. Supervision over the punishment on violations should also be strengthened. Mao suggested that the reform should go on with the market-oriented direction. Chief Economist Qiu Jin of China International Capital Corporation Limited advised that the rating system should be consummated for a better investment value report system, so as to give play to the function of the price inquiry institutions in the pricing process. Attendees including Professor Liao Li of Tsinghua University, Deputy General Manager Wang Junhui of China Life Asset Management Company Limited and Sun Yi, Head of the Capital Markets Department of CITIC Securities Co., Ltd., all suggested further optimizing the structure of price inquirers, increasing the offline issuance proportion and allowing the offline institutional investors to play a more essential role in pricing. High price-to-earnings ratio in the issuance and excessive fund raising to be suppressed It is agreed that the high price-to-earnings ratio in the issuance and excessive fund raising are results of many factors, such as a favorable market environment and the high average market evaluation, which is normal in the market-oriented issuance. Such phenomena will become less when the market evaluation is normalized. According to President Li Jianyong of GF Securities Co., Ltd., excessive fund raising does not mean money grabbing. He proposed to further advance securities dealers’ evaluation capabilities, earnestly prepare the alternative projects, shorten the issuance examination cycle and speed up the issuance pace. In the view of Director Dong Dengxin of the Financial Research Institute, Wuhan University of Science & Technology, the high price-earnings-ratio in the issuance will increase the possibility that the price of a stock will be lower than the issuance price. As long as the marketization direction is kept unchanged, the investors will soon be aware of the issuance risk of the primary market, leading to the achievement of the goal of market-oriented reform. When talking about whether the offering of stock shares could effectively eliminate the excessive fund raising, Zhao Ju, Director and General Manager of UBS Securities Co., Limited said further discussion is needed for using IPO of stock shares to solve the problem. President Mo Taishan of Bank of Communications Schroder Fund Management Co., Ltd. expressed that certain sales limit on the shares allotted offline could help restrain the quotation by the price inquiry institutions, while the specific lock-up periods could be shortened properly. New share issuance irrelevant with market behavior in the long run According to Deputy General Manager Wang Yawei of China Asset Management Co., Ltd., market behavior determines the new share expansion, so the latter should not be the reason for the market drop. He advised that market-oriented reform should be followed in the expansion pace and pricing mechanism. President Hua Sheng of Yanjing Overseas Chinese University maintained that the deepening of reform calls for the marketization of issuance pace and refinancing market as well as the improvement of supporting projects such as the delisting system. Chairman Huang Xiangping of the SAC, Governor Geng Liang and President Zhang Yujun of the SSE, President Song Liping of the SZSE, representatives of sponsors, price inquiry institutions, market experts and retail investors attended the seminar.

Seven New Indices to be Launched
18 Jan 2010
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently announced that a series of new indices would be officially launched on February 9, 2010, namely SSE Industry Top Index (SSE Industry Top), CSI Industry Top Index (CSI Industry Top), CSI Local State-owned Enterprises Composite Index (CSI L SOEs), CSI Local State-owned Enterprises 100 Index (CSI L SOEs 100), CSI State-owned Enterprises Composite Index (CSI SOEs), CSI State-owned Enterprises 200 Index (CSI SOEs 200) and CSI Galaxy 99 Index (Galaxy 99). It is learnt that both SSE Industry Top and CSI Industry Top constituents are selected from stocks of companies with large market capitalization and outstanding business income and profit performances in the industries. These firms, typical of blue chips, win themselves a name of "top enterprise" for their large scale, big market share and great influence on the development trend and ebb and flow of the industry as a whole. According to the latest statistics, the market capitalizations of SSE Industry Top and CSI Industry Top are RMB8.95 trillion and RMB10.22 trillion, or 49.02% of that of A shares on the SSE and 42.45% of that of A shares on both the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), respectively. Some fund companies have been reported to commit themselves to the development of ETF products of SSE Industry Top. CSI L SOEs 100, made up of stocks of 100 representative local state-owned enterprises listed on the SSE and the SZSE, demonstrates the overall performance of the stocks of the large-scale local state-owned enterprises listed on the SSE and the SZSE and provides an underlying instrument for the development of relevant indexation investment product. CSI SOEs 200, consisting of constituents of CSI L SOEs 100 and CSI Central State-owned Enterprises 100 Index, showcases the overall performance of the stocks of all state-owned enterprises listed on the two markets. According to the latest statistics, over 640 local state-owned enterprises listed on the SSE and the SZSE boast a market capitalization of RMB6.97 trillion, or about 28.82% of that of A shares on the two markets, with a floating market capitalization accounting for nearly 31.43% of that of A shares on the two markets. The market capitalization of CSI L SOEs 100 is RMB4 trillion with a floating market capitalization of RMB2.7 trillion while that of CSI SOEs 200 is RMB14.8 trillion with a floating market capitalization of RMB9.15 trillion. Galaxy 99, a strategy index developed upon the demand of China Galaxy Securities Company Limited, selects from CSI 300 Index 99 stocks with large market capitalization and high growth potential as its constituents. Judging by the past performance, it is able to realize excess earnings by tracing the performance of CSI 300 Index. For compilation methods and details of the above indices, please refer to the websites of the SSE (www.sse.com.cn) and CSI (www.csindex.com.cn).

Two Accounts Restricted as SSE Cracks Down on New Stock Speculation
15 Jan 2010
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently imposed trading restrictions on two accounts with their owners respectively surnamed Huang and Xu in a bid to curb over-speculation on newly issued stocks. It is learnt that Huang and Xu have conducted abnormal trading behaviors like frequent orders, withdrawal of orders and sale of shares after driving up prices during the trading of several stocks since this year, and been suspected of taking advantage of capital adequacy to speculate on new shares. Despite a number of oral and written warnings from the SSE, Huang and Xu still conducted abnormal transactions frequently. As a result, the SSE imposed the disciplinary punishment of 1-month trading restrictions on their accounts. To prevent potential new stock over-speculation, the SSE has made careful arrangements by urging relevant members to fulfill their obligation of management over clients' trading behaviors and play a better role in cooperative supervision and publicizing potential risks in new stock speculation through news media to dissuade investors from irrational participation. Furthermore, the SSE has put a list of accounts prone to new stock speculation under strict surveillance and taken such measures as oral and written warning, interview and account trading restriction to deter speculation in time. According to an SSE official, to ward off the spread of the trend of over-speculation on new shares and safeguard investors' interest, the bourse will consistently tighten its supervision and punishment over malicious speculation and impose severer supervision measures on securities accounts by which serious speculations are conducted. The SSE also reminds investors of investment risks in new shares listing and to avoid blindly following suit.

SSE Cyclical, Non-Cyclical Indices to be Launched on Feb. 3
12 Jan 2010
The SSE Cyclical Industry 50 Index (SSE Cyclical, with the code of "000063") and the SSE non-Cyclical Industry 100 Index (SSE non-Cyclical, with the code of "000064") will be officially launched on February 3, 2010 as benchmarks for the trends of stocks in different industries to offer investors new investment targets, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) announced recently. The base days of the above two new indices are both December 31, 2003, with the base points of both 1,000. According to the published index compilation schemes, both SSE Cyclical and non-Cyclical constituents are selected from that of SSE Large & Mid & Small Cap Index. Constituents of SSE Cyclical are made up of 50 stocks with large market capitalization and sufficient liquidity in five industries with strong cyclical features, namely finance and insurance, mining, transportation and storage, metal and non-metal and real estate, while constituents of SSE non-Cyclical consist of 100 stocks with large market capitalization and sufficient liquidity in the remaining 17 industries subject to the industry classification of the China Securities Regulatory Commission. Statistics show that by January 11, 2010, the market capitalizations of SSE Cyclical and non-Cyclical had been RMB10,630.7 billion and RMB2,798.3 billion, or 58.87% and 15.50% of that of A shares on the SSE, respectively, with the free float adjusted market capitalizations of RMB2,465.6 billion and RMB1,234.0 billion, accounting for 41.81% and 20.92% of that of A shares on the SSE, respectively. Following the adjustment to the constituents of the SSE Large & Mid & Small Cap Index, the SSE Cyclical and non-Cyclical indices undergo biannual regular adjustments, with the time for the adjustments on the first trading days in January and July each year. Special adjustments will also be made under special circumstances. For compilation methods and detailed materials of the SSE Cyclical and non-Cyclical indices, please refer to the websites of the SSE and CSI. It is learnt that some fund companies have committed themselves to the development of ETF products of the SSE Cyclical and non-Cyclical indices. As of January 11, 2010, the SSE Cyclical and non-Cyclical indices had closed at 2,947 and 2,409 points, respectively.

Notice of Doing a Better Job for Disclosing 2009 Annual Reports
04 Jan 2010
All listed companies, To do a better job for disclosing listed companies' annual reports of 2009 and in accordance with regulations in the "Rules No. 2 on Contents and Format of Information Disclosure by Companies Publicly Issuing Securities -- Contents and Format of Annual Reports" (Amendment in 2007, hereinafter referred to as the "Rules on Annual Reports") and the "SSE Stock Listing Rules" (hereinafter referred to as the "Listing Rules"), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby notifies as follows: 1. The directorate of every listed company should organize relevant personnel to carefully study the "Rules on Annual Reports", carry out requirements of the "Announcement on Doing a Better Job for Disclosing 2009 Annual Reports and Relevant Work" (CSRC Announcement [2009] No. 34), implement relevant documents newly issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and the SSE, and promptly compile, submit and disclose the annual reports of 2009; 2. Any company listed on the SSE before December 31, 2009 should compile, submit and disclose the annual report of 2009 before April 30, 2010. Any company newly listed between January 1 and April 30, 2010 should also disclose its annual report of 2009 before April 30, 2010 if it fails to disclose the audited financial accounting information of 2009 in its listing announcement. If a listed company predicts it is unable to do so, it should submit a written report to the SSE before April 15, 2010 and announce the reason, solutions and deadline of the postponed disclosure. From May 1, 2010, the SSE will suspend trading of its shares and derivatives, and publicly criticize the company and the personnel concerned; 3. According to the principle of balanced disclosure, the SSE, in order to avoid excessively concentrated disclosure of annual reports of listed companies, will allow a daily maximum of 45 listed companies to disclose their annual reports. Listed companies should, in line with the schedules stipulated with the SSE, arrange their compilation work and timely disclose their annual reports. Schedules for listed companies to disclose their annual reports and possible changes will be announced on the SSE's website; 4. The directors, supervisors, senior management and other secrecy-bound personnel of a listed company should hold secret-keeping obligations during the compilation of the annual report, and they should by no means divulge the contents in any ways before the disclosure. A listed company should take effective measures to ensure that its directors, supervisors, senior management, controlling shareholder, actual controller and its related parties abide by relevant regulations in purchasing and selling its shares. Prior to the official disclosure of the annual report, if the performance information is divulged in advance or abnormal fluctuation happens to trading of stock or its derivatives because of performance rumors, the listed company should disclose the performance express according to Article 11.3.5 and 11.3.6 of the "Listing Rules"; 5. A listed company should issue the performance prediction before January 31, 2010 according to Article 11.3.1 and 11.3.2 of the "Listing Rules"; 6. If a listed company's shareholders or transaction counterparts made promises on the performance of the company or that of the injected assets in 2009, the directorate should pay attention to the fulfillment of the promise. If an accounting firm issues the special examination opinion on it, the company should disclose the opinion together with the annual report on the designated website. If the performance of a company or that of relevant assets in 2009 fails to reach the level as promised, the company shall, in the directorate meeting discussing and approving the annual report, separately discuss the spread between the actual profit and the promised amount, specify in detail the spread and the measures already taken or to be taken by the company, and urge relevant shareholders or transaction counterparts to fulfill the promises. A listed company shall, after examining all the promises made by its major shareholders since the IPO that have not been completed and have lasted till the reporting period, disclose them in the annual report of 2009 according to the requirements of the "Rules on Annual Reports". If the promises made by the major shareholders can not be implemented, the listed company's directorate shall urge the major shareholders to make new promises or propose the compensation schemes; 7. SSE-listed companies in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector, those who issue overseas listed foreign shares and financial companies should disclose the directorates' self-evaluation reports on internal control (hereinafter referred to as "internal control reports") together with the annual reports of 2009. Other qualified listed companies are encouraged to do so. Listed companies are encouraged to engage auditing institutions to verify and evaluate their internal control. In doing so, they should disclose the opinions of auditing institutions. SSE-listed companies in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector, those who issue overseas listed foreign shares and financial companies should disclose the reports on the fulfillment of social responsibilities (hereinafter referred to as social responsibilities reports) together with the annual reports of 2009. Other qualified listed companies are encouraged to do so. Separate discussions shall be conducted by the directorate in case a company discloses the internal control report and social responsibilities report. 8. A listed company should, in accordance with the "Notice on Amendment in Regulations for Listed Companies' Cash Dividend" (CSRC Decree [2008] No. 57), list the amount of cash dividend in the past 3 years and its proportion to net profit in the annual report. A listed company, who made profits in 2009 (Meanwhile, its parent company made positive undistributed profit.) but have no scheme of cash profit distribution, should present reasons in the announcement on directorate resolution that discuss and approve the annual report, and make clear the usage and usage plan for the undistributed profits; 9. When auditing a listed company's annual financial report, the certified public accountant should issue special remarks on the listed company's capital occupation by controlling shareholders and other related parties in line with the regulations of the "Notice of Some Issues on Regulating Fund Transfer Between Listed Companies and Related Parties and Outward Guarantee Provided by Listed Companies" (Zheng Jian Fa [2003] No. 56). A Listed company is also required to disclose the special remarks on the SSE's website when releasing the annual report. A listed company with capital occupation by major shareholders and their affiliated enterprises for non-operational purpose should make additional disclosure of the occupation date, amount and reasons, the repayment amount, the balance at the end of period, the predicted repayment method, the time for discharging, persons in charge and the directorate's planned solutions in the "Creditor's Rights and Liabilities between Related Parties" in the "Significant Events" in the full texts of the annual report; 10. If a listed company's directors, supervisors, senior management and shareholders with more than 5% shares are suspected of illegal purchase and sale of shares during the reporting period, or such suspected irregularities happen and the profits from them are disclosed to be withdrawn by the company, the listed company should disclose the time and amount of the profits withdrawn by the directorate in the "Significant Events" in the full texts of the annual report; 11. If a listed company has made changes to accounting policies and accounting estimations or the modifications to significant accounting errors but not for implementing the new accounting standards, it should make remarks in the annual report according to the requirements of the "Rules on Annual Reports". In addition, when submitting the annual report, it should also submit to the SSE the written opinions of the directorate, the board of supervisors and independent directors as well as relevant remarks by the accounting firm concerning the above changes and modifications. The remarks by the accounting firm should include the reasons for the above changes and modifications, the detailed accounting treatment, the affected amount on previous years' financial conditions and operational results concerning retroactive adjustments, and whether necessary communication has been conducted with former accounting firm in case of the change of accounting firm. In addition, if the listed company needs to make retroactive adjustments to its financial data of the previous reporting period in the annual report for modifying significant accounting errors, it should disclose the modification of significant accounting errors, the directorate's accountability measures towards relevant persons in charge and the treatment result in the form of temporary announcement before or on the disclosure date of the annual report according to the CSRC's regulations. 12. If the accounting firm issues a non-standard audit report (audit report with stressed issues and unqualified opinions as well as audit report with non-unqualified opinions) to a listed company's financial accounting report of 2009, the listed company should submit relevant documents to the SSE according to the regulations of Chapter VI of the "Listing Rules". If the accounting firm issues the audit report with disclaimer of opinion or adverse opinion to a company's financial report of 2009, the listed company should disclose a risk alert every half-month from the disclosure day of the annual report of 2009 to the settlement day of the involved issues or the disclosure day of the semi-annual report of 2010. The risk alert should contain the company's latest operation performance and the progress of the involved issues; 13. A listed company which has issued convertible bonds should disclose relevant contents in the annual report according to the requirements of Chapter VI of the "Listing Rules". Commercial banks, insurance companies, securities companies and companies engaged in real estate development should execute the special information disclosure regulations formulated by the CSRC on special industries or businesses; 14. If a listed company is under the continuous supervision by a sponsor or financial consultant, according to the CSRC's relevant requirements and the requirements of the SSE's "Guidelines for Continuous Supervision over Listed Company", it should submit the sponsor's report on continuous supervision or the financial consultant's opinion on continuous supervision to the SSE and disclose them on the SSE's website after the annual report disclosure. 15. A listed company should complete compilation of the annual report within two working days after the certified public accountant issues an auditing report, and submit the following documents to the SSE within two working days after the directorate approves the annual report: A. Documents to be submitted by a company: 1) the full text of the annual report of 2009 signed by the current legal representative and sealed by the company; 2) the abstract of the annual report of 2009; 3) the announcement on directorate resolutions; 4) the self-evaluation report on the internal control (if applicable); 5) the directorate's special remarks on issues involved in the non-standard unqualified auditing opinions (if applicable); 6) the directorate's special report on deposit and usage of this year's raised funds (if applicable); 7) the directorate's remarks on change of accounting policies or estimation and the modification of significant accounting errors (if applicable); 8) the social responsibility report (if applicable); 9) the independent director's special remarks and independent opinions on the company's outward guarantees; 10) the independent director's opinions on issues involved in the non-standard unqualified auditing opinions (if applicable); 11) the announcement on resolutions of the board of supervisors; 12) the board of supervisors' opinion towards the directorate's special remarks on issues involved in the non-standard unqualified auditing opinions (if applicable); and 13) the board of supervisors' remarks on change of accounting policies or estimation and the modification of significant accounting errors (if applicable). B. Documents to be submitted by an accounting firm: 1) the audited financial report of 2009; 2) the special remarks on the company's capital occupation by controlling shareholder and its related parties; 3) the special remarks on issues involved in the non-standard unqualified auditing opinions (if applicable); 4) the special examination report on deposit and usage of the company's raised funds (if applicable); 5) the remarks on change of accounting policies or estimation and the modification of significant accounting errors (if applicable); 6) the special examination report on the realization of profit prediction in the significant assets reorganization (if applicable); 7) the verification and evaluation opinion on the company's self-evaluation report on the internal control (if applicable); C. The sponsor's special verification and examination report on deposit and actual usage of the company's raised funds (if applicable); D. Documents for filing: 1) The resolution of the directorate, the written confirmation of the annual report of 2009 signed by directors and the senior management, and special remarks and independent opinions on the outward guarantee signed by independent directors; 2) The resolution of the board of supervisors and a written verification opinion of the annual report of 2009 put forward by the board of supervisors in the form of its resolution; and 3) The PDF/WORD file and XBRL instance documents of the annual report of 2009 (generated by the SSE information disclosure reporting system). Every listed company should file completely and correctly the content required by the information disclosure reporting system and the content to be disclosed in PDF file. The XBRL instance documents will be disclosed on the SSE website together with the PDF file. (for compilation and submission requirements of e-document, please refer to the business memo of the "Disclosure of Annual Report of 2009" in the Section of Listed Companies on the SSE website); E. The application form for disclosure of the annual report of 2009 (downloadable from the SSE's website), ready-to-disclose announcements and the application form for disclosure of announcements; and F. Other documents required by the SSE. Among the aforesaid documents issued by a listed company, its accounting firm and sponsor, the annual report abstract, the announcement on directorate resolutions and that on resolutions of the board of supervisors shall be disclosed in the designated newspapers and periodicals, and the remaining documents should be disclosed on the SSE's website. A listed company should submit the above documents before 15:30 on the trading day prior to the disclosure of the annual report, and can't contact designated newspapers for publishing the annual report and abstract until the SSE completes relevant registration procedures; 16. Listed companies are encouraged to publish their annual reports on their own websites, yet the time can not be earlier than the disclosure time on the SSE's website; 17. A listed company which has issued domestically listed foreign shares should also publish contents of its annual report overseas at the same time, and timely submit the published foreign newspapers to the SSE for record; 18. In case of information reporting, illegal purchase and sale of a company's shares by the insiders of the insider information or the occupation of non-operational capital during the reporting period, a listed company should report relevant information to the SSE for record within ten working days after the disclosure of the annual report according to the requirements of the CSRC Announcement [2009] No. 34; 19. The SSE will implement after-action check toward the annual reports of the listed companies. After receiving the examination opinions of the SSE, the companies are supposed to provide written explanations on the issues involved. Besides, they should also publish relevant supplementary and modification announcements in the designated newspapers and on the designated websites, and disclose the modified full texts of the annual reports on the SSE's website. Shanghai Stock Exchange December 31, 2009

SSE Announcement
31 Dec 2009
According to the "Securities Law" and the "Trading Rules of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE)", the SSE decides that trading of Governance ETF (510010) should be resumed from December 31, 2009 onwards. According to the net asset value of Governance ETF of Bank of Communications Schroder Fund Management Co., Ltd. on December 30, the closing price of the fund before December 31 is RMB0.910. Shanghai Stock Exchange December 31, 2009

SSE Holiday Schedule for 2010
24 Dec 2009
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces holiday schedule for 2010 according to the "Notice of Arrangements concerning Market Closing and Public Holidays in 2010" of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (No. [2009] 121 by CSRC): 1. Arrangements of market closing (1) New Year's Day: The Exchange will close from January 1, 2010(Friday) to January 3, 2010(Sunday) and open for trading on January 4, 2010(Monday). (2) Spring Festival: The Exchange will close from February 13(Saturday), to February 19, 2010(Friday) and open for trading on February 22(Monday). It will also close on the weekends on February 20(Saturday), and February 21, 2010(Sunday). (3) Tomb Sweeping Day: The Exchange will close from April 3(Saturday), to April 5 2010(Monday) and open for trading on April 6, 2010(Tuesday). (4) Labor Day: The Exchange will close from May 1(Saturday) to May 3, 2010 (Monday) and open for trading on May 4(Tuesday). (5) Dragon Boat Festival: The Exchange will close from June 14(Monday) to June 16, 2010 (Wednesday) and will open for trading on June 17, 2010(Thursday). It will also close on the weekends on June 12, 2010(Saturday) and June 13, 2010(Sunday). (6) Mid-Autumn Festival: The Exchange will close from September 22(Wednesday) to September 24, 2010(Friday) and open for trading on September 27, 2010(Monday). It will also close on the weekends on September 19(Sunday) and September 25, 2010 (Saturday). (7) National Day: The Exchange will close from October 1(Friday) to October 7, 2010 (Thursday) and open for trading on October 8, 2010(Friday). It will also close on the weekends on September 26(Sunday) and October 9, 2010(Saturday). 2. Relevant clearing issues will be carried out according to the arrangements of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. 3. Issues for testing in Spring Festival and National Day are subject to further notice. Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. December 23, 2009

SSE Strikes Market Violations Hard in "Supervision Quarter" Campaign
21 Dec 2009
The "Supervision Quarter" campaign, kick-started by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) since April 1 this year, has, until now, lasted for three quarters, during which the SSE made interim achievements with its supervision authority displayed by taking a series of effective supervision activities and provided lots of success experience and helpful references for deepening the bourse' supervision and improving the effectiveness and pertinence of supervision, according to the recent report of the Shanghai Securities News. It is learnt that the SSE cracked down on the market violations in its "Supervision Quarter" campaign from four aspects. First, the supervision was tightened. The concepts of "timely discovery, report and determent" were earnestly carried out in the "Supervision Quarter" campaign, with the supervision punishment means including trading suspension, trading restriction, public censure and circular of criticism adopted boldly, accurately and uncontroversially. Not only did the quantity of supervision punishment far exceed the record, a number of breakthroughs and attempts in terms of penalty strength, use frequency and scope were also conducted to fight the difficult and key issues in supervision including malicious speculation by idle fund and listed company's incompliance in information disclosure. All this contributed to the effective utilization of all resources and the maximum supervision strength. Second, quick response to the market change and the hot and risky issues in market supervision was achieved. The SSE timely and decisively conducted the special supervision over all kinds of hot, key, difficult and risky issues in supervision including speculation on new stocks, shareholding by fake celebrities, insider dealing, short-term manipulation, malicious stock investment advising, account stealing and selling, speculation on warrants and illegal shareholding decrease of non-tradable shares. In addition, it effectively checked the emerging violations in the bud, gave out the active market activity direction and awed the malicious tendency by intensifying its daily risk control. Third, relevant supporting rules and guidelines were promulgated to improve the flexibility and transparency of supervision. The SSE cleared up, evaluated and reviewed its business rules, introduced the standard documents including the "Guidelines for Continuous Supervision over Listed Company" and the "Guidelines for Election and Conducts of Directors", summed up its experience in litigation response and supervision over key accounts and conducted the special research on classified supervision over investors. All this has given full play to the supporting function of self-regulatory management mechanism including disciplinary penalty to the supervision, timely elevated the flexibility and transparency of supervisory means in coping with market changes and closely connected the legal system research with the business rules perfection, self-regulatory supervision system construction and judicial environment optimization. Fourth, the regular communication mechanism was established to ensure the smooth information exchange among all parties and the overall planning of supervision. Through the communication meetings regularly held by the six-person supervision team made up of the heads of six major business departments of the SSE, a good coordination mechanism of exchanging work progress by all supervision departments was established to give full play to the joint supervision under supervision measures and business operation mechanism.

8th China Corporate Governance Forum Kicks off
19 Dec 2009
Three special awards for governance of listed companies granted by the SSE for the first time The 8th China Corporate Governance Forum, hosted by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) under the auspices of the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC) of the State Council and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), was held in Shanghai on December 18 to celebrate the 19th anniversary of the SSE. SSE President Zhang Yujun presided over the opening ceremony of the Forum and the awarding ceremony for governance of listed companies, at which three special awards, "Directorate Award 2009", "Information Disclosure Award 2009" and "Typical Merger and Acquisition Case Award", were granted by the SSE for the first time. Director Li Rongrong of the SASAC of the State Council, Vice Chairman Zhuang Xinyi of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), Member of CPC Committee and Vice Mayor Tu Guangshao of Shanghai Municipality, Governor Geng Liang of the SSE and Governor Chen Dongzheng of the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) delivered speeches at the meeting. SSE Vice Presidents Zhou Qinye and Xu Ming chaired the theme sessions, respectively. Attending the forum were over 200 representatives from the CSRC, the SASAC, listed companies, institutional investors and intermediaries at home and abroad. Li pointed out in his speech that perfection of corporate governance is not only the core but also the most difficult issue in the reform of state-owned enterprises (SOEs). The SASAC will continue to boost the system reform and listing of central SOEs and support eligible ones to realize the overall listing with their major businesses or as groups as soon as possible. Zhuang praised the Chinese capital market's achievements in corporate governance improvement and noted that a solid foundation for further quality improvement of listed companies in China has been laid in recent years thanks to the cumulative effects resulted from the construction of fundamental systems for China's capital market, which have been embodied through improved market mechanism, gradual popularization of equity knowledge and enhanced quality of intermediaries. In the days to come, the CSRC will continue to take measures to propel the merger and acquisition of companies in a bid to promote the development of control market in China. Tu, on behalf of the Shanghai Municipal Government, expressed his best wishes to the Forum. He said that capital market plays a crucial role in building Shanghai into an international financial hub. The Shanghai Municipal Government has always attached great importance to the corporate governance improvement of Shanghai-based enterprises in recent years. In terms of reform of SOEs, Shanghai, in accordance with the state strategy, in compliance with the requirements of taking the lead in four aspects (i.e. transforming the mode of economic growth, improving the independent innovative capability, boosting the reform and opening-up and constructing a socialist harmonious society) and focused on the needs in speeding up the construction of four centers (namely international economic, financial, trade and shipping centers), has given its priority to six aspects of work in line with the opinions on further promoting the reform of Shanghai-based SOEs and the supporting documents. SSE Governor Geng Liang reviewed at the forum the achievements of Shanghai securities market in 2009 and expressed that the SSE would drive the construction of blue-chip stock market in Shanghai from four aspects: firstly, to unswervingly promote the improvement of corporate governance of listed companies; secondly, to attracting more quality enterprises to get listed in Shanghai; thirdly, to encourage the listed companies to make mergers and acquisitions; fourthly, to accelerate the construction of the SSE international board market. SSE President Zhang Yujun introduced at the awarding ceremony the aims and evaluation process of the special awards for corporate governance. He pointed out that "Directorate Award 2009", "Information Disclosure Award 2009" and "Typical Merger and Acquisition Case Award" were designed to spread advanced experience, offer models and promote best practices by honoring those in Shanghai securities market standing out for their corporate governance. He also said that the special awards for corporate governance would be granted regularly by the SSE. It is learnt that in the past decade, the SSE has always attached great importance to corporate governance and made great efforts in stimulating the listed companies to improve their corporate governance. As early as 1990s, the SSE started its research on corporate governance. The "Report on China Corporate Governance" has been compiled and published on an annual basis since 2003. The guidance for corporate governance, the first of its kind in China, was drafted, with other listing and business rules continuously amended to tighten the requirements for governance structure of listed companies, standardize the operation of listed companies and strengthen the supervision over information disclosure. In recent years, the SSE set up the Corporate Governance Sector and introduced products including the SSE Corporate Governance Index and Corporate Governance ETF. All this contributed to the advancement of China's listed companies in corporate governance. The corporate governance forum, hosted by the SSE annually since 2001, enters its 8th year this year. At the one-day forum, participants conducted broad and thorough discussion and communication on subjects of "corporate control market and industrial structure adjustment", "current issues confronting the corporate control market", "perspective of corporate control market" and "merger and acquisition mode of listed company".

Geng: Further Drive Development of Blue-chip Stock Market
19 Dec 2009
With the total over RMB260 billion fund raised at the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) this year next only to that in 2007 in its 19-year-old history, the SSE, next year, will boost the development of blue-chip stock market to provide a more standard and varied platform for listing and operation of large and medium sized enterprises, said SSE Governor Geng Liang at the 8th China Corporate Governance Forum yesterday. According to Geng, so far, the total market capitalization of the stocks on the SSE has reached RMB18.3 trillion, up 88% from last year, with the turnover of RMB33.4 trillion, up 85% year on year. Of the global capital markets, the SSE is ranked 5th, 3rd and 6th in terms of stock market capitalization, turnover and total amount of raised fund, respectively. Judging by the market scale, the SSE has become one of the most important international capital markets. Looking into 2010, Geng expressed that the SSE would further boost the development of blue-chip stock market by propelling listed companies to improve their corporate governance level and perfect their rules and systems of corporate governance, strengthening the supervision over listed companies' governance through various ways and supporting quality enterprises to get listed on the SSE. Statistics show that since 2006, a total of 47 large enterprises have been listed on the SSE, with a market capitalization of over RMB8.8 trillion, accounting for 48% of that of the SSE. Their total profit in the first three quarters of the year exceeded RMB470 billion, or 68% of the total of all 870 companies listed on the SSE, with their trading volume accounting for about 20% of the total of the SSE. Geng pointed out that from the perspective of China's industrial distribution, lots of large quality enterprises still have not finished their system reform for listing. The SSE will continue to strengthen the communication and cooperation with governments of all levels, relevant authorities, regulators and enterprises to promote the leading enterprises in key industries including finance, energy, military industry, culture, railway, power grid and nuclear power to go listed on the SSE and propel the restructuring and merger of listed companies. In addition, Geng added that the SSE also attached great importance to the construction of international board market with a view to attracting world-class enterprises to go listed on the SSE to contribute to the building of Shanghai into an international financial hub.

SSE Corporate Bond 30, Overseas-listing A Shares, State-owned 100 Indices Launched
17 Dec 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently announced that nine new indices will be launched on the first trading day of 2010, namely, the SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index, the SSE Overseas-listing A Shares Index, the SSE Local State-owned Enterprises 50 Index, the SSE State-owned Enterprises 100 Index, the SSE Large & Mid & Small Cap Growth, Value, Relative Growth and Relative Value Indices and the SSE Shanghai Enterprises Index. All these indices will provide more targets for such index products as index funds and ETFs. The SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index, the first real-time bonds index in China, is composed of 30 high-quality, large-scale and high-liquidity enterprise bonds from the SSE. The index, giving priority to the liquidity of the constituents, has adopted the weight restriction rule to reduce the influence of some constituents with large issuance volumes on the index. Besides, the duration matching rule is also designed to keep the deviation of the duration for the index and that for the market at or below 10%. The SSE Corporate Bond 30 Index is significant for the bond market development as it offers high-quality targets for bond ETFs and other bond products. On December 16, 2009, the index closed at 100.38, 0.38% higher than the beginning of the year. A few overseas listed companies, upon returning to the A-share market in succession since 2006, have become an important sector in the A-share market and exerted a growing influence on the market. The constituents of the SSE Overseas-listing A Shares Index are listed companies' stocks in the SSE 180 Index that are simultaneously listed on the SSE and exchanges outside the mainland. The 37 constituents boast the A-share total market capitalization and negotiable market capitalization of RMB9.1977 trillion and RMB4.5783 trillion, respectively, accounting for 50.38% and 40.79% of that of the SSE, respectively. The SSE State-owned Enterprises 100 Index, composed of 50 constituents of the SSE Central SOEs 50 Index and 50 of the SSE Local State-owned Enterprises 50 Index, could reflect the overall performance of the listed companies of state-owned enterprises in Shanghai. Constituents of the SSE Local State-owned Enterprises 50 Index are 50 most typical stocks selected from listed companies in Shanghai that are controlled by local state-owned assets supervision and administration commissions, governments and state-owned enterprises. The compiling method of the SSE Large & Mid & Small Cap Style Indices, basically the same with that of the SSE 180 Style Indices, is to select among the SSE Large & Mid & Small Cap Index the stocks of 150 companies with most remarkable growth features as the constituents of the growth indices, and the stocks of 150 companies with most remarkable value features as the constituents of the value indices. In terms of the SSE Shanghai Enterprises Index, with the constituent universe covering companies registered in Shanghai, have the constituents of 50 companies taking the lead in liquidity, scale and representativeness to reflect the overall market performance of Shanghai-based companies' stocks.

Adjustment list for SSE 180 And SSE 50 And SSE Dividend index
14 Dec 2009
Adjustment list for SSE 180、SSE 50 And SSE Dividend index The following adjustment will be effective from the first trading day of Jan, 2010. Adjustment list for SSE 180 index： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 600027 华电国际 600132 重庆啤酒 600033 福建高速 600159 大龙地产 600127 金健米业 600240 华业地产 600138 中青旅 600271 航天信息 600183 生益科技 600369 西南证券 600236 桂冠电力 600415 小商品城 600295 鄂尔多斯 600522 中天科技 600438 通威股份 600606 金丰投资 600498 烽火通信 600657 信达地产 600685 广船国际 600664 哈药股份 600688 S上石化 600741 华域汽车 600723 西单商场 600790 轻纺城 600755 厦门国贸 600846 同济科技 600770 综艺股份 601099 太平洋 600797 浙大网新 601107 四川成渝 600867 通化东宝 601668 中国建筑 Adjustment list for SSE 50 index： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 600009 上海机场 600089 特变电工 600177 雅戈尔 600383 金地集团 600642 申能股份 600489 中金黄金 601333 广深铁路 600547 山东黄金 601998 中信银行 601668 中国建筑 Adjustment list for SSE Dividend index：： Deletion List Addition list Code Name Code Name 600001 邯郸钢铁 600309 烟台万华 600059 古越龙山 600664 哈药股份 600104 上海汽车 600754 锦江股份 600300 维维股份 600779 水井坊 600307 酒钢宏兴 601328 交通银行 600331 宏达股份 601398 工商银行 600418 江淮汽车 601666 平煤股份 600569 安阳钢铁 601699 潞安环能 600808 马钢股份 601939 建设银行 600863 内蒙华电 601988 中国银行   Shanghai Stock Exchanges China Securities Index Co.LTD 2009.12.14.

SSE 180, 50 Indices, CSI 300, 100 Indices Adjust Constituents
14 Dec 2009
According to the index construction rule and upon examination by the committee of index experts, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently announced to adjust the constituents of such indices as the SSE 180 Index, the SSE 50 Index and the SSE Dividend Index. Besides, the CSI also announced to adjust the constituents of such indices as the CSI 300, the CSI 100, the CSI 500, the CSI Dividend, the CSI Hong Kong 100 Index (CSI HK 100) and the CSI Great China indices. The adjustment will come into effect on the first trading day of January 2010. In the adjustment, 16 stocks of the SSE 180 Index will be replaced through adding China State Construction Engineering Corporation Limited (China Construction) and Sichuan Expressway Company Limited, etc. and deleting S Shanghai Petrochemical Co., Ltd. and Huadian Power International Corporation Limited (Huadian International), etc. Five stocks of the SSE 50 Index will be replaced through adding China Construction and Shandong Gold Mining Co., Ltd., etc. and deleting Guangshen Railway Company Limited and Youngor Group Co., Ltd., etc. Ten stocks of the SSE Dividend Index will be replaced through adding Bank of China Limited (BOC) and Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited (ICBC), etc. and deleting Handan Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. and SAIC Motor Corporation Limited (SAIC Motor), etc. Two stocks of the SSE Mega-cap Index will be replaced through adding Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Co., Ltd. and China Construction and deleting China Life Insurance Company Limited and China South Locomotive & Rolling Stock Corporation. Eight stocks of the SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index will be replaced through adding Jinan Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. and China Gezhouba Group Company Limited and deleting Huadian International and Fujian Expressway Development Company Limited. 16 stocks of the CSI 300 Index will be replaced through adding China Construction and Metallurgical Corporation of China Ltd. (MCC), etc and deleting Panzhihua New Steel & Vanadium Company Limited (Panzhihua Steel & Vanadium) and BOE Technology Group Co., Ltd., etc. Seven stocks of the CSI 100 Index will be replaced through adding China Construction and MCC, etc. and deleting Panzhihua Steel & Vanadium and Huadian International, etc. 50 stocks of the CSI 500 Index will be replaced through adding Huayuan Property Co., Ltd. and Zhejiang Hisun Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., etc. and deleting Beiqi Foton Motor Co., Ltd. and Yunnan  Metropolitan Real Estate Development Co., Ltd., etc. 20 stocks of the CSI Dividend will be replaced through adding BOC and ICBC, etc. and deleting SAIC Motor and Inner Mongolia Mengdian Huaneng Thermal Power Corporation Limited, etc. Four stocks of the CSI HK 100 Index will be replaced. Meanwhile, constituents of the CSI 200, the CSI 700, the CSI 800, the CSI 300 Sector and the CSI Great China indices will also be adjusted accordingly. For specific lists, please refer to the announcements of the SSE and the CSI or visit the websites of the SSE (www.sse.com.cn), the SZSE (www.szse.cn) and the CSI (www.csindex.com.cn). After the adjustment, the total market capitalization of the CSI 300, the CSI 100 and the CSI 500 indices will cover 75.67%, 60.77% and 12.22% of the total on the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), respectively. The total market capitalization of the SSE 180 Index, the SSE 50 Index and the SSE Mega-cap Index will cover 80.4%, 63.8% and 41.95% of the total on the SSE, respectively. The semi-annual reports of 2009 show that the net profits of the constituents of the CSI 300 and the CSI 100 indices are RMB451.422 billion and RMB411.182 billion, accounting for 92.65% and 84.39% of the total net profits of listed companies on the SSE and SZSE, respectively. The weighted average earnings per share of constituents of the CSI 300 and the CSI 100 indices are RMB0.2258 and RMB0.2329, respectively, or 17.24% and 20.92% higher, respectively, than the average level of the listed companies on the SSE and SZSE. The net profits of the constituents of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index are RMB432.328 billion and RMB387.804 billion, respectively, accounting for 93.29% and 83.68%, respectively, of the total net profits of listed companies on the SSE. The weighted average earnings per share of the constituents of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index are RMB0.2278 and RMB0.2398, respectively, or 11.50% and 17.38% higher, respectively, than the average level of the listed companies on the SSE. In the most recent year, the dividend payment of the CSI 300 and the CSI 100 indices have reached a total of RMB320.587 billion and RMB297.16 billion, respectively, accounting for 91.98% and 85.25% of the total dividend payment of the A-share listed companies on the SSE and the SZSE. The dividend payment of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index have reached a total of RMB300.134 billion and RMB270.734 billion, respectively, accounting for 94.23% and 85% of the total dividend payment of the A-share listed companies on the SSE. The respective dividend yields of the SSE Dividend and the CSI Dividend are 2.11% and 2.06% after the adjustment. After the adjustment, price-earnings ratios of the CSI 300 and the CSI 100 indices are 25.31 and 23.40, respectively, if calculated according to the closing prices on December 11, 2009, or 11.11% and 17.82% lower, respectively, than the average A-share market level on the SSE and SZSE. Price-earnings ratios of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index are 23.82 and 22.10, respectively, or 8.07% and 14.71% lower, respectively, than the average market level on the SSE.

SSE Honors 11 Member Units, 16 Individuals for Their Noticeable Performance in System Switch
09 Dec 2009
SSE Honors 11 Member Units, 16 Individuals for Their Noticeable Performance in System Switch (2009-12-09)   The New Generation Trading System of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) was put into formal operation on December 4, 2009 after smoothly going through with its two-week trial run started from November 23, 2009 upon joint efforts of the whole market.   All member units have earnestly implemented, according to the requirements of the SSE, the work related to the new trading system in 2009. While actively engaged in the testing and arrangement deployed by the SSE, they put forward many valuable advices and suggestions for the perfection of the system. In addition, they operate the system in a serious and elaborate way, thus laying a solid market foundation for the smooth launch of the system. The SSE hereby honors some outstanding performers in the system switch, including Haitong Securities Co., Ltd., Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co., Ltd. and other 9 member units as well as 16 individuals (see the attachment below).   Attachment: List of the 11 member units and the 16 individuals   No. Member Unit Individual 1 Haitong Securities Co., Ltd. Shen Yunming, Wang Hongtao 2 Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co., Ltd. Guo Yifeng, Shao Bin 3 Guotai Junan Securities Co., Ltd. Yu Feng, Ren Zhihao 4 China Galaxy Securities Co., Ltd. Tang Peilai, Zhao Guoqin 5 Guosen Securities Co., Ltd. Liao Yabin, Liu Hanxi 6 Huatai Securities Co., Ltd. Wang Jin 7 Everbright Securities Co., Ltd. Li Xianzhi 8 China Merchants Securities Co., Ltd. Yin Ming 9 Industrial Securities Co., Ltd. Liu Bin 10 Changjiang Securities Co., Ltd. Hu Caoyuan 11 Orient Securities Co., Ltd. Li Chenhui    

SSE Announcement
07 Dec 2009
Under the guidance of the China Securities Regulatory Commission and through the joint efforts of all market participants, the new trading system of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) smoothly went through with its trial run on December 4 after its successful launch on November 23, 2009. The new system will be officially put into operation today, with its predecessor retired after the returning-back period. The SSE hereby extends thanks to its member units, fund management companies, relevant market participants and investors for their support and cooperation in the adoption of the new system. The SSE will continuously devote itself to the infrastructure construction of the securities market to optimize trading system, strengthen technical management and improve technical service. Shanghai Stock Exchange December 5, 2009

SSE Puts Its New Trading System into Operation
07 Dec 2009
The new trading system of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will be officially put into operation today after smoothly going through with its two-week trial run on December 4. The original trading system retired after the returning-back period. Under the guidance of the China Securities Regulatory Commission and through the joint efforts of all market participants, the SSE new trading system started its trial run after its successful launch on November 23, 2009. The smooth launch of the new system, an overall facelift to the existing one by the bourse, will remarkably improve the system's matching efficiency and ability and strengthen its safeness and reliability. The new system, a booster of the bourse's core competitiveness, will ensure a strong technical support for the construction of the SSE into a world-class exchange. It is learnt that the new system boasts a peak order processing rate of 80,000 orders per second, with an average order delay 30% shorter than the current one. The system's daily bilateral volume of not less than 120 million orders is equivalent to the daily volume of RMB1.2 trillion on a single market and quadruples the maximum peak value ever recorded in the bourse, with a capability of parallel expansion. Moreover, the system, technically more reliable, is capable of ensuring the steady operation under the circumstance of peak data flow. In addition, the system lays a solid foundation for the SSE's exploration into international business by ensuring easier access to its technical interfaces for all participants at home and aboard. Meanwhile, the new SSE system taps a new channel to the future upgrading of technical systems of its members and other market participants and acts as an ideal platform to support the bourse's simulated transaction business, custody business, and multi-variety-and-platform business in the future. According to the announcement published by the SSE today, the system, with efforts of all market participants, wound up its trial run on December 4. In other words, it will be officially put into operation today, with its predecessor retired saying farewell to its users. The SSE extended thanks to its member units, fund management companies, relevant market participants and investors for their support and cooperation in the adoption of the new system, and said that it would continuously devote itself to the infrastructure construction of the securities market to optimize trading system, strengthen technical management and improve technical service.

Promoting Legal System Construction, Perfecting Self-regulation
04 Dec 2009
An Interview with Vice President Xu Ming of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) The SSE has, in recent years, achieved a great progress in terms of "runing the SSE in accordance with the law" by strengthening and perfecting its legal system construction and self-regulation. On the eve of "December 4, the National Law Publicity Day", the SSE Vice President Xu Ming spoke on "runing the SSE in accordance with the law" in an exclusive interview with the "Shanghai Securities News". Reporter (R): What has the SSE done in the aspect of legal system construction? Xu Ming (Xu): in recent years, especially since the implementation of the amended "Securities Law" and "Company Law", the SSE, in line with its basic guideline of "runing the SSE in accordance with the law", has made continuous efforts to strengthen its legal system construction. First, it laid a solid foundation for self-regulation by perfecting its business rule system according to the two amended laws; second, it enhanced the pertinence, timeliness, guidance and deterrence of self-regulation by tightening the market supervision over new situations and characteristics in the development of securities market; third, it realized the expansion of self-regulation scope and richened the content and extension of self-regulation by guiding and supervising the market participants including its member units and listed companies to intensify self-discipline; fourth, it improved the professionalism of self-regulation by perfecting the mechanism to establish special committees of professionals from and outside the SSE and standardizing the self-regulation process; fifth, it optimized the external environment for self-regulation by promoting and participating in the legislation concerning securities market, making research on and publicizing securities law system, strengthening the investor education and market service and properly dealing with conflicts and disputes. The SSE pushed its "runing the SSE in accordance with the law" and self-regulation to a new height through the above efforts. R: What are the relations between the bourse's self-regulation and legal system construction? Xu: The SSE, upholding its basic development guideline of "runing the SSE in accordance with the law", has for a long time attached great importance to the fundamental role of legal system in its self-regulation. Through many years' supervision practices, the SSE gained deeper understanding that self-regulation is in essence an integral part of legal system construction as all aspects of the bourse's self-regulation, from rules formulation to implementation, from trading organization to transaction supervision, and from internal governance to market supervision, are based on laws, regulations, procedures, systems and processes. Self-regulation according to law is not only a requirement from regulators but also an internal need and conscious action of the bourse in accordance with its own development. R: Could you please introduce to us the SSE's mechanism of dynamic business rules supervision and adjustment? Xu: The SSE, through regular clearing-up, supervision and examination and appraisal of business rules in recent years, established the mechanism of dynamic supervision and adjustment of business rules. In 2008, the SSE, through another overall clearing-up of the business rules set since its establishment, completed the compilation of a new edition of business rules, with 340 business rules confirmed to be valid and 82 abolished through announcement. Besides, it upgraded its official website's column "Business Rules" for an easier inquiry of its members, listed companies and investors. In 2009, the SSE, in the principle of conciseness, clearness, efficiency and practicality, set the clearing-up goal of cutting 1/3 of business rules and cleared up the business rules again, with over 100 business rules amended, consolidated and abolished. To improve the effectiveness of the implementation of business rules, in the 1st half of 2008, the SSE formulated the "Detailed Rules for Supervision, Examination and Appraisal of Business Rules", according to which, 1-2 times of supervision, examination and appraisal of business rules will be organized on an annual basis. The formulation of the Rules will improve the constitution and implementation of business rules and make it better serve the needs of self-regulation. R: What measures have the SSE taken to strengthen the market supervision in accordance with the new situations and characteristics in the development of securities market? Xu: According to the new situations and characteristics in the development of the securities market after completion of equity division reform, the SSE gave prominence to the supervision features of "strictness, swiftness and accuracy" and intensified its punishment over all kinds of violations in accordance with the "Listing Rules", the "Trading Rules", the "Member Management Rules", the "Notice of Relevant Issues Concerning Implementation of 'Guidance Opinion on Transfer of Stock Shares with Terminated Sales Limit of Listed Companies'" and the "Guidance for Real-time Supervision on Abnormal Securities Trading". Since the 2nd quarter of 2009, the SSE had launched the project of "Supervision Quarter". Trading restriction or criticism notices were imposed in time for illegal trading of big/small non-tradable stocks and illegal shareholding increase and lessening by listed companies' directors, supervisors and senior management. As for big speculation-oriented investors' market manipulation including frequent order and withdrawal of order, consecutive large-volume purchase order, driving up opening or closing prices and transaction through collusion, such measures as warning, interview, signing of commitment letter of compliance trading and trading restriction were taken rapidly. For instance, the SSE, in May 2009, penalized the manipulation in trading of such stocks as "*ST Tai Yuan Tianlong Group Co., Ltd.", "Gansu Yasheng Industrial (Group) Co., Ltd." and "Insigam Technology Co., Ltd." by an investor named Wu Baozhen with 1-month trading restriction. Concerning the abnormal trading of some stocks and warrants, intraday trading suspension was adopted decisively, with the times for intraday trading suspension since 2009 up to more than 10. Meanwhile, the SSE published relevant typical cases to the market through the white paper on self-regulation, news release and columns of "Investor Education" on three major securities newspapers. All this has achieved desired deterrent effects and purified the market environment. R: Why did the SSE promote the expansion of self-regulation scope? Xu: Generally speaking, self-regulation refers to the compulsory supervision over members and listed companies by an exchange, a self-regulatory organization. However, the self-discipline, a kind of conscious self-restraint and self-control, of members and listed companies, as independent participants at the frontline of the market, is of great importance to market development and may yield twice the effect with only half efforts. In recent years, the SSE, devoted to expansion of self-regulation scope and guidance of relevant market participants towards law-abidance and self-discipline, formulated a series of guidelines including the "Guidelines for Internal Control of Listed Companies" and the "Guidelines for Management of Listed Companies' Shares Held by Its Own Directors, Supervisors and Senior Management" and perfected the "Statement and Commitment Letter" of directors, supervisors and senior management with a view to promoting listed companies to strengthen their internal control and investor relation management and guiding directors, supervisors and senior management towards self-discipline. In addition, the SSE guided its members to enhance internal control and client management by publishing the "Member Management Rules", the "Detailed Rules for Management of Securities Trading by Member's Clients" and the "Detailed Implementation Rules for Management of Member's Trading and Relevant Systems". All this has remarkably richened the content and extension of self-regulation, thus intensifying the self-regulation effects. R: What is the role of special committees in the SSE's self-regulation in recent years? Xu: After the implementation of the new "Securities Law", the SSE perfected the organizational structure and review process of the Listing Committee and further standardized the review of stock listing, listing suspension, listing resumption and delisting. In November 2007, the SSE set up the Review Committee to take charge of the review of dissents put forward by relevant market participants on the bourse's such supervision measures as listing application rejection, delisting and trading restriction on securities account. After its establishment, the Reexamination Committee properly reviewed the delisting issue of Daqing Lianyi Petro-Chemical Co., Ltd. In July 2008, the SSE set up the Disciplinary Committee and established the system of separating investigation from trial of illegal cases. So far, with reference to the opinions of the Disciplinary Committee, the SSE has made 143 decisions on disciplinary punishment. Of them, 7 companies and 19 senior management members were censured publicly. 35 companies and 153 senior management members were criticized in notices. 12 companies and 83 individuals were imposed with trading restriction. And 2 persons were publicly recognized as ones unsuitable to hold the position of director of a listed company. The set-up and operation of all special committees further perfected the SSE's self-regulation mechanism, standardized the self-regulation process and improved the transparency and professionalism of self-regulation, which in turn secured the objectiveness and fairness of self-regulation and provided sufficient internal remedy channels for parties concerned. R: What efforts have the SSE made to optimize the external legal system environment of the self-regulation? Xu: In recent years, the SSE has actively participated and cooperated in the investigation, drafting and amending of relevant state laws and regulations of the China Securities Regulatory Commission by giving suggestions. After organizing study on around 50 legal system subjects under the "SSE Joint Research Plan", it has achieved many high-quality research results centering on the fundamental and pioneering legal issues of the securities market. In 2009, its former unpublished material "Securities Legal System Viewpoint" was facelifted to "On Securities Laws", an academic collected paper published by the Law Press, creating a new platform of theories and public opinions for the sound and stable development of the securities market. Besides, the bourse has made an initial success after elaborately building the "Six Ones" project for investor education, namely, one influential investor education website, one simulated securities trading platform with demonstration teaching function, one investor education forum with a wide coverage, one set of books of investor education with authoritative and intelligible contents, one group of qualified investors and one set of rules and systems related to investor education. It has carried out long-term and in-depth investor education covering laws, regulations and risk prevention in a bid to foster rational investors. Trainings on laws and business rules of the securities market have been organized regularly for listed companies and member companies to raise the compliance awareness of relevant market participants. It has also maintained the stability of the securities market and the society by properly handling various conflicts and disputes arising in the securities market. All this has led to the continuous improvement in the external legal system environment of self-regulation. R: How will the SSE further promote the legal system construction in future? Xu: This year is the 10-year anniversary of the implementation of the "Securities Law", while the SSE will celebrate the 19th anniversary of its establishment on December 19. At a new historical starting point, it will strive to make greater achievements in "running the SSE in accordance with the law" and self-regulation by unswervingly strengthening the legal system construction and continuously improving the idea and method of legal work. Firstly, it will, with focus on the central task of our securities market's development and the SSE's goal of fostering the blue-chip market and building itself into the world-class exchange, offer strong guarantee of laws and rules for the securities market's reform and development, especially the market innovation, by continuously promoting and participating in the perfection of the laws, set of rules and systems. Secondly, it will create a harmonious and relaxed legal environment for the exchange and the capital market by further enhancing the communication and coordination with relevant institutions, perfecting such mechanisms as separating investigation from review, special committees and remedy channel, improving the operation of its own departments and boosting the construction of self-regulation mechanism. Thirdly, it will endeavor to create an open, fair and just market environment by earnestly toughening the enforcement of its business rules, constantly improving the front-line supervision over members, listed companies and securities trading as well as urging relevant market participants to abide by the law and conduct self-regulation. Fourthly, it will provide the theoretical foundation and public opinion support for the legal system construction of the capital market by continuously conducting the study on important legal system subjects of the securities market and doing a good job in running "On Securities Laws".

Job Notices of overseas human resources
03 Dec 2009
A Brief Introduction to the SSE Founded on Nov. 26th of 1990, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) started operation on Dec.19th of the same year.  Directly governed by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the SSE has committed itself to the creation of a transparent, open, reliable and efficient marketplace and protection of the rights and interests of investors.  Its major functions include providing a marketplace and facilities for securities trading, formulating business rules, reviewing listing applications and arranging for listings, organizing and monitoring securities trading, regulating members and listed companies, and managing and publicizing market information. By the end of October 2009, the SSE has listed more than 868 companies and 1300 securities.  Shanghai has emerged to become one of the major capital markets in the Asia Pacific region with an enhanced role in China's national economy and increasing influence on international financial markets. Positions and the number of openings 1. Overseas Markets Development (4) Responsibilities: To promote SSE and attract listings from target overseas markets. Qualifications: Advanced degrees in related fields; at least 3 years' work experiences in major overseas financial markets; good understanding of the markets, regulations and cultures in Southeast Asia and Eastern Europe; command of the local languages; experiences in market or client development or private equity investment. 2. Risk Management (1) Responsibilities: To identify, assess, monitor and respond to systematic risks in the securities market and risks related to the exchange operation Qualifications: Advanced degrees in related fields; at least 3 years' work experiences in major overseas financial markets; experiences in financial risk control; at least 3 years' trading experiences with cash and derivative products. 3. Legal Research on International Capital Markets (1) Responsibilities: To follow developments in the laws and regulations governing int'l capital markets and formulate international business rules of the SSE. Qualifications: Advanced degrees in related fields; at least 3 years' work experiences in major overseas financial markets;  familiar with overseas and Chinese laws and regulations on capital markets. 4. Foreign Listed Companies Regulation (3) Responsibilities: To regulate SSE-listed foreign companies and their information disclosure. Qualifications: Advanced degrees in related fields; at least 3 years' work experiences in major overseas financial markets;  familiar with overseas and Chinese laws and regulations on capital markets. 5. Information Program Planning (1) Responsibilities: To follow developments in information management practices of overseas capital markets and exchanges, and design, revise and implement information-related programs and strategies of the SSE.. Qualifications: Advanced degrees in related fields; at least 3 years' work experiences in major transnational companies, consulting firms,  or international financial institutions; strong capacities in information collection and communication; experienced in carrying out major projects; having led or participated in information program development and implementation. Contact Address: 528 South Pudong Road, Shanghai 200120, PR China Website: http://www.sse.com.cn Contact: Rongjun Cui Email: rjcui@sse.com.cn Phone: 0086-21-68800057         Fax: 0086-21-68818820 Welcome to join ShangHai Stock Exchange. If you are interested in the position above, Please email your resume to rjcui@sse.com.cn

Ten Pieces of Real Work Done Boosting Investor Education
30 Nov 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has actively explored the rules, methods and approaches of investor education under the new circumstance to strive to foster the mature, rational and eligible investors for one year since the establishment of its Investor Education Department. The Shanghai Securities News has recently interviewed Secretary Wan Dujuan of the SSE Discipline Inspection Committee, who is in charge of the investor education in the SSE, to get a general picture of the SSE's efforts in investor education this year. Q: What has the SSE done for investor education since this year? Wan: The SSE has continuously carried out the unified arrangements of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) by putting its focus on securities trading and combining investor education with system construction, frontline supervision, market innovation, industry self-regulation and investor complaint treatment. The SSE has done ten pieces of real work in terms of "Six Ones" of investor education since this year. The "Six Ones" refers to one influential investor education website, one simulated securities trading platform with demonstration teaching function, one investor education forum with a wide coverage, one set of books of investor education with authoritative and intelligible contents, one set of rules and systems related to investor education and one group of qualified investors. More specifically, the ten pieces of real work include: first, perfecting the investor education work mechanism and establishing the system of regular meetings concerning the investor education work to timely learn the weak links. Second, providing reference for a better job in the future by conducting an investigation on the current situation of investors and analyzing the variation tendency of investor structure and behavior characteristics this year. Third, setting up diversified communication channels of videos, websites and newspapers by launching the investor education program "Public Lecture on Securities". Fourth, introducing the simulated securities trading platform with integrated functions of securities knowledge learning, trading process demonstration and simulated trading. Fifth, providing the basic teaching materials for ordinary investors' systemic learning by compiling the first book series for investor education to popularize the ABC of annual report, ETF and corporate bonds. Sixth, optimizing the investor education website and connecting the website with the SSE members' investor education reporting systems, thus promoting the sharing of investor education resources within the industry. Seventh, realizing the close combination of investor education with frontline supervision by intensifying the risk alerts for to-be-due warrants and urging its members to implement the risk education timely and earnestly. Eighth, improving the timeliness and effectiveness of investor education by creating investor education columns for educational articles on market hot issues on three major securities newspapers. Ninth, enhancing the experience exchange within the industry and urging its members to do a better job in investor education through activities including "March 15, Investor and Me" article solicitation and client management appraisal. Tenth, laying a solid foundation for perfection of investor appropriateness management by formulating the internal guidelines of the "Misfeasance Recognition Standards and Procedures" on the basis of the SSE credit platform construction. Q: What innovative measures did the SSE take to better assume the heavy responsibility of investor education? Wan: The SSE persistently made innovations in its operational mechanism to perfect the basics of investor education this year. On the one hand, it explored and established the mechanism of supervision and examination over its member companies' fulfillment of obligation of investor education and service and drove its members to improve the quality of investor education and service through standardization of investor education liaison system and special appraisal of client management. On the other hand, it inspired its member companies and fund companies to take the initiative in improving the work of investor education to propel the further implementation of investor education through reporting the updated information of investor education and participating in the program production of "Public Lecture on Securities". In addition, the SSE strengthened the communication with the news media to richen the information about risk alert and perfect the cooperative mechanism. In terms of the forms and channels of the investor education, the SSE shot the video program of "Public Lecture on Securities", optimized the structure of the investor education website and launched the novel simulated securities trading platform. With regard to the rules and systems, in combination with fostering qualified investors, the SSE formulated relevant guidelines to define the varieties of misfeasance by all market participants and the SSE's recognition process. Meanwhile, the SSE fell to formulating the relevant rules on investor appropriateness management to standardize its members' risk tolerance evaluations towards their clients, thus guiding individual investors to rationally participate in the securities transactions suitable to their risk tolerance.

SSE New Trading System Starts a Trial Run Today
23 Nov 2009
Interfaces for international business reserved, investors not directly affected by the adoption of the new system. The new trading system of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), designed to replace its predecessor, was officially launched and on trial run in the wee hours today, the first day for it to take on the task of market trading and operation. The smooth launch of the new trading system, an overall facelift to the existing one by the bourse, will remarkably improve the system's matching efficiency and ability and strengthen its safeness and reliability. The new system, a booster of the bourse's core competitiveness, will ensure a technical support for the construction of the SSE into a world-class exchange and offer an ideal platform for the SSE's simulated transaction business, custody business, multi-variety-and-platform business in the future. Furthermore, the kickoff of the new system will facilitate a safer, easier, more fair and efficient investor trading participation. It is learnt that the new system boasts a peak order processing rate of 80,000 orders per second, with an average order delay 30% shorter than the current one. The system's daily bilateral volume of not less than 120 million orders is equivalent to the daily volume of RMB1.2 trillion on a single market and quadruples the maximum peak value ever recorded in the bourse, with a capability of parallel expansion. In addition, the new system provides an easier access to the technical interfaces for all participants at home and aboard, thus laying a solid foundation for the SSE's exploration into international business. The SSE carried out comprehensive measures to secure the success of the launch of the system. Firstly, it perfected its contingency plan regarding all possible risks during the system launch and perfected its specific measures for each risk and breakdown situation. Secondly, it established the joint contingency mechanism with China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited to deal with all kinds of risks involving the registration and settlement during the new system launch. Thirdly, it urged the market participants to form the working groups of trading contingency treatment during the trial run period. The working group shall work out the contingency plans and direct the contingency treatment. In addition, investors directly using the business systems of various securities companies will not be affected by the adoption of the new system.

Announcement on Switching to New Trading System
16 Nov 2009
After years of elaborate preparations and several tests on the whole market, the New Generation Trading System of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will be put into operation as a substitute for the existing one on November 23, 2009 upon approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. Systems directly connected to the SSE such as that of the securities companies will be simultaneously switched at that time. The adoption of the new trading system, an overall change to the existing one by the bourse, will not directly affect the investors, who are using the business systems of the securities companies. Putting the new trading system into use is a systematic project covering wide areas and involving complicated technologies. The SSE has made careful and ample preparations to ensure the smooth operation of trading. What's more, the bourse has formulated relevant contingency plans for possible risks. In case of any abnormal trading resulting from malfunction of the system, the bourse will take necessary measures in time according to the "Detailed Implementation Rules on Handling Abnormal Trading of the SSE (Trial)". If the trading can not be carried out in a normal way due to the system's malfunction, the bourse will close the market. And if the trading can not be resumed on the day when the system goes wrong and on the following day, the bourse will switch back to the existing system for trading. Shanghai Stock Exchange November 16, 2009

Q&A by SSE Official on Switch, Launch of New Trading System
16 Nov 2009
The publication of the "Announcement on Switch and Launch of New Trading System" by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) today marked the official start-up of switch and launch of the SSE new trading system. An SSE official made the following remarks on relevant issues in an interview with the press: Q: Would you please introduce to us the construction of the SSE new trading system and the significance of its launch? A: Thanks to the rapid development of China's capital market in the last few years, the SSE's stock trading volume grew by leaps and bounds from the daily average of RMB7.156 billion in 2002 to RMB138.8 billion in 2009. As links at China's securities market, including issuance, listing, trading and communication, heavily depend on technology, the market keeps propelling us for technical innovations. From the perspective of the global market, the upgrading of trading system is inevitable for market development. Since November 2004, the bourse has been well on the way to the development of the new trading system. By October 2007, the overall design and software development of the system had been completed, with about 160 key documents under 53 subclasses of 13 categories compiled and approximately 1 million lines of codes for pure source program delivered. The model of the online version, finalized in April 2009, has been at the stage of synchronous operation and maintenance since late June. At present, the last-minute preparations for the switch are under way orderly. The SSE's new trading system, inheriting the advantages of the current system, learning from the characteristics and merits of overseas stock trading systems and meeting the long-term development needs of China's capital market, is a fruit of technical integration and re-innovation. The smooth launch of the new system, a booster of the bourse's core competitiveness, is of great importance to the construction of the SSE into a world-class exchange in terms of technical security. First, the SSE provides a powerful guarantee for future market development through improvement in processing and safety capability of its trading system. The new system boasts a peak order processing rate of about 80,000 orders per second, with an average order delay 30% shorter than the current one. The system's daily bilateral volume of not less than 120 million orders is equivalent to the daily volume of RMB1.2 trillion on a single market and quadruples the maximum peak value ever recorded in the bourse, with a capability of parallel expansion. Moreover, the system, technically more reliable, is capable of ensuring the steady operation under the circumstance of peak data flow. Second, a solid foundation is laid for the SSE's exploration into international business by ensuring easier access to the technical interfaces for all participants at home and aboard. Third, the SSE's role in leading industry technical advancement is given full play by tapping up the new channel to future upgrading of technical systems of its members and other market participants. Fourth, an ideal platform is established to support the SSE's simulated transaction business, custody business, multi-variety-and-platform business in the future. Q: What are the arrangements for the switch of the old trading system to the new one and the launch of the new system? A: The launch of the new trading system is scheduled for November 23 (Monday). The switch and launch falls into three stages: 1. Launch preparation period: all pre-launch preparations will be rounded off before 24:00 on November 20 (Friday). 2. Switch period: the switch from the current system to the new one will be wound up between 00:00 on November 21 (Saturday) and 24:00 on November 22 (Sunday). 3. Trial run period: focus will be put on the operation of the new system to eliminate possible risks from November 23 to December 4. After the end of the trial run, the current system will be shut down. During the trial run period, in case of failure in normal transactions due to technical drawback of the trading system, the SSE will announce market closure. If the trading on the very day and the following day can't be resumed due to melt-down of the new trading system, the SSE will fall back on the current system for trading resumption. Q: What preparations has the SSE made for the launch of the new system? A: The SSE, in the principles of active preparation, steady promotion and step-by-step implementation, has devoted countless hours to the careful preparations for the launch of the new system. So far, preparations for the new system in terms of system, market and bourse have all been in place. First, the system is ready to go. Since June 2009, the SSE has organized several rounds and batches of all-around tests, special pressure tests and special destructive tests participated in by market participants with a view to verifying the system's functionality in usability, robustness, high capacity, anti-destructive attack, network monitoring and system monitoring as well as the operating team's response competence. The 3 all-around online tests organized by the bourse since October this year have achieved expected results, indicating that the new system is qualified for its launch. Second, the market is fully prepared. With the completion of prophase laboratory test, on-the-spot access test and overall market training, the SSE officially kicked off the preparations for the launch of the new system by market participants in May 2009. In July and August this year, all market participants including securities companies and fund companies were grouped into 6 batches and underwent 7 all-around tests. According to the inspection results of examination and acceptance, all market participants have completed their preparations for technology and business. The subsequent 3 all-around online tests further proved that all member units and other market participants have got everything ready for the launch. Third, the bourse itself is ready. After elaborate preparations, the business operation platform of the trading system, the internal business process, the trading hall, the business operation team, the contingency treatment mechanism related to the new trading system as well as the service integration with the back-end depository and clearing system are ready. All this ensures the smooth operation of the new trading system upon its adoption. Q: What measures have the SSE formulated to ensure the launch of the new trading system? A: To ensure the smooth and safe launch of the new trading system, the SSE has established a command center for overall direction and coordination during the switch stage. The command center is divided into five working groups of technology switch, technology operation, business operation, relevant systems and comprehensive affairs. In the "special guarantee" month for the adoption of the new trading system since November 2, the SSE will take guarantee measures at the highest level according to the system switch progress. Besides, the SSE has also made thorough arrangements on the following issues. To begin with, it has strengthened the risk prevention capabilities of member units, keeping close watch on those large in scale with complex technical system, those under reorganization currently, those adjusting the technical systems before and after the launch of the new trading systems, and those lagging behind in technical strength. The SSE has set up a technical service group to provide technical support for members at any time. Meanwhile, a service hotline for the launch of the new system is open to keep in touch with the market. Next, the internal risk prevention of the bourse has been intensified. In line with the principle of "prevention first, quick response, timely disposal and less impact", the SSE has kept improving its ability of quick response, recognition and disposal towards all kinds of risks and relevant technical failures based on the previously formulated contingency schemes. Lastly, the implementation of businesses spanning over one day will be suspended. The SSE will suspend the implementation of businesses spanning over one day related to the product issuance such as the IPO of new products (A shares, B shares, bonds, funds and warrants) and additional issuance from three working days before the adoption of the new system to five working days after the successful switch (from November 18 to 30). Q: How will the adoption of the new trading system affect the securities companies and other market participants? What are the SSE requirements upon them? A: While the new trading system is put into operation, systems of the securities companies and other market participants that are directly connected to the SSE will be simultaneously switched to the new system. Market participants shall, in accordance with the general planning of the SSE on the adoption of the new system, make relevant technical and business preparations to ensure the safe and smooth launch of the systems directly connected to the SSE. In its "Notice of Making Preparations for Launch of New Trading System" in May 2009, the SSE required that the securities companies, fund companies and relevant market participants form the special working groups led by their senior management members. In the recent mobilization meeting of the whole market, the SSE asked all units to, in the light of its organizational mechanism and safeguarding measures, pay much attention to and spare no effort in the implementation of various work as required. The SSE also specified in a notice the following requirements: firstly, market participants shall carefully study relevant documents on system switch and do a good job in publicity and mobilization. Secondly, they shall form the working groups for the switch and designate personnel in charge. Thirdly, apart from keeping the communications smooth and efficient, they shall give the feedback in time if any problem should crop up. Fourthly, they shall work out the operational schemes and contingency plans for the system switch on the member's side. Related personnel shall be know how to carry out relevant processes and plans to avoid manual operating errors. Q: How will the adoption of the new trading system affect the investors? A: The previous trading methods of investors who are directly using the business systems of various securities companies will not be affected by the adoption of the new system. Undoubtedly, the shift of the new system into use is a systematic project covering wide areas and involving complicated technologies. The SSE has made corresponding contingency plans for possible risks to minimize the influence on the investors' trading. The new system, yet to-be-launched, with improved match efficiency and ability, safeness and reliability, will allow the investors to trade in a safer, easier, more fair and efficient way. Q: What contingency measures have the SSE adopted against the emergencies that may crop up in the launch of the new trading system? A: To ensure a safe system launch, the SSE will promptly deal with the abnormal conditions during the launch according to the issued "Detailed Implementation Rules on Handling Abnormal Trading of the SSE (Trial)". Firstly, it perfected its contingency plan regarding all possible risks during the system launch and perfected the specific measure for each risk and breakdown situation. Secondly, it established the joint contingency mechanism with China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited to deal with all kinds of risks involving the registration and settlement during the new system launch. Thirdly, it issued the "Guidance on Contingency Treatment for Market Participants' Trading of the SSE" to urge the market participants to form the working groups of trading contingency treatment during the trial run period. The working group shall work out the contingency plans and direct the contingency treatment. In addition, the SSE also tried to maintain the market stability through sufficient communication with the investors.

SSE Tightens Punishment over Illegal Accounts
13 Nov 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) strengthened its supervision over speculation on newly issued stocks on the market by centralized risk alerts to a number of accounts prone to speculation on new stocks and taking measures including written warning and trading restriction towards some accounts seriously violating regulations. Since the IPO re-launch in the 2nd half of the year, the SSE has made united deployment and careful arrangement to prevent potential over-speculation on new stocks: first, enhancing investor education by publicizing potential investment risks and regulatory risks in new stock speculation through news media; second, tightening up monitoring and punishment of suspicious abnormal trading behaviors and preventing possible over-speculation by means of oral reminder, written warning and trading restriction; third, working with its member units and urging them to play a better role in cooperative supervision to improve their client management. According to an SSE official, most investors understand the potential risks in new share listing, with the climate of speculation on new shares on the decline on the market. Some investors, however, turned a blind eye to the reminders and warnings and plunged into speculation irrationally. The SSE has recently imposed a trading restriction on an account with its owner surnamed Fang. It is learnt that the account participated in the speculation on some new shares and conducted abnormal trading behaviors like frequent orders and withdrawal of orders during the trading of several stocks this year. Despite a number of oral and written warnings from the SSE, Fang still conducted abnormal transactions frequently. As a result, the SSE imposed the disciplinary punishment of 3-month trading restriction on Fang's account. Meanwhile, the SSE stated that behaviors, made during new share trading, suspected of serious violations against laws and regulations will, depending on the situation, be reported to the China Securities Regulatory Commission for further investigation. An SSE official also stressed that the bourse, adhering to its principle of strict supervision, would carry out a close surveillance over the trading of new shares on the first listing day and unswervingly cracked down on all illegal transactions. Meanwhile, all member units shall earnestly fulfill their management obligations on clients' trading behaviors by taking effective measures to standardize clients' trading behaviors with a view to preventing occurrence of illegal trading. For those with poor client management, their responsibilities would be investigated according to relevant rules.

SSE Probes Illegal Trading by Listed Companies' Directors, Supervisors and Senior Management
09 Nov 2009
In the first ten months of 2009, forty five people were punished due to trading during ban period, short-swing trading and failure to disclose online the trading information in time. As of October 2009, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) had conducted overall inspection twice on the illegal shares trading by listed companies' directors, supervisors and senior management this year, with 45 people punished due to their illegal trading. The bourse will, while further strengthening the supervision and punishment of directors, supervisors and senior management, intensify supervision over the insiders of the inside information. The market has been concerned about the recent illegal trading of shares in some listed companies by their directors, supervisors and senior management such as trading before the disclosure of the semi-annual report and 3rd quarter report of 2009 and during other ban periods for trading of their own companies' shares and the short-swing trading. Regarding such conducts, the SSE stresses that the purchase and sale of shares in listed companies by their directors, supervisors and senior management shall be in strict accordance with the requirements of the "Company Law", the "Securities Law", the "Management Rules of Shares Held by Directors, Supervisors and Senior Management of Listed Companies and These Changes" released by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and other laws and regulations. The SSE had previously improved the prior and post supervision over the trading of shares in listed companies by their directors, supervisors and senior management by specially formulating the operation procedure, joining hands with Shanghai Branch of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited (SD&C Shanghai Branch) to use relevant technical methods and making specific supervisory arrangements for the management and change of shareholding of listed companies' directors, supervisors and senior management. The SSE requires the listed companies to report the basic information and declarations of their directors, supervisors and senior management on the listing day and within two days after the changes of relevant information of directors, supervisors and senior management. In addition, the SSE conducts the classified supervision by the following methods. Firstly, prior supervision is conducted over such situations as that the directors, supervisors and senior management shall not transfer the shares in their own companies within one year after their companies' stocks are listed and traded and within half a year after their resignations, and that the shares transferred by the directors, supervisors and senior management every year within their tenures shall not exceed 25% of the total shares in their companies held by them. The SSE and SD&C Shanghai Branch conduct prior control by lock-up in advance. However, as the B-share system does not support lock-up in advance for now, the SSE still conducts post supervision over the shareholding lessening of B shares by the directors, supervisors and senior management. Secondly, post supervision is conducted over the short-swing trading in violation of Article 47 of the "Securities Law", such as selling the shares in the company within 6 months after the purchase, or vice versa. Thirdly, post supervision is conducted over the violation of the ban period for shares trading (such as within 30 days before the listed companies' periodical reports are announced, within 10 days before the listed companies' performance prediction or express on performance are announced, or from the day when a significant event that may have significant influence on the trading price of a company's shares occurs or from the decision process of the significant event to within 2 trading days after the lawful disclosure and other periods specified by the SSE), the promises made by the directors, supervisors and senior management of not transferring the shares within a certain period and the specific restrictive measures stipulated by some listed companies in their Articles of Association. Therefore, after the disclosure of the annual reports and semi-annual reports every year, the SSE will examine whether the listed companies' directors, supervisors and senior management conduct illegal shares trading. According to the examination result, the bourse will express surveillance attention to relevant personnel or report them to its Disciplinary Committee for disciplinary punishment. In case any listed company with significant event is suspected of trading during the sensitive period, the SSE's Company Management Department will provide the information of the company's directors, supervisors and senior management to the SSE's Market Surveillance Department, which will verify relevant information and cooperate in imposing relevant disciplinary sanction on the violations of relevant personnel. According to statistics, as of October 2009, the SSE had imposed punishment on 45 directors, supervisors and senior management of listed companies this year for their illegal trading such as violations of ban period for shares trading, short-swing trading and failure to disclose in time the shares trading information on the website of the SSE. Based on the amount and seriousness of illegal trading by relevant responsible persons, the bourse had expressed surveillance attention to 19 people and taken disciplinary measures of criticizing 26 people in circulars upon discussion and approval by the SSE's Disciplinary Committee. Concerning the illegal conducts of some companies resulting from incorrectly reported or untimely updated information of the directors, supervisors and senior management, the SSE had expressed surveillance attention to and criticized the responsible Secretaries to Directorate of listed companies in circulars. What's more, to better publicize the rules on shares trading by listed companies' directors, supervisors, senior management and relevant shareholders, the SSE's Company Management Department worked out the "Q & A on Norm of Shares Trading by Listed Companies' Directors, Supervisors, Senior Management and Shareholders" in July 2009. The bourse requires Secretary to Directorate of each listed company to convey the norm to all directors, supervisors, senior management and relevant shareholders in time and to urge them to follow relevant rules. In September, the SSE's Company Management Department issued the "Notice of Urging Listed Companies' Directors, Supervisors, Senior Management and Shareholders to Strictly Observe Rules of Shares Trading". According to the notice, such reasons as the directors, supervisors and senior management "incorrectly operated", "didn't know relevant rules", "entrusted others with the account management" and "were in the dark about" the trading can not free them from the responsibility of illegal trading. Also, the listed companies shall, by regularly organizing their directors, supervisors and senior management to study the regulatory documents of stock trading, urge them to understand and observe relevant rules and to conduct stock trading according to the rules. In case of the illegal shares trading by the directors, supervisors and senior management, while the Secretary to Directorate of a company fails in his or her duty, the SSE will include the case as part of the annual appraisal of Secretary to Directorate apart from severely punishing relevant responsible personnel. Besides, the SSE also organized its staff to give lessons to directors, supervisors and senior management at the trainings held by regional regulatory bureaus of the CSRC. It is expected to further standardize the shares trading of listed companies' directors, supervisors and senior management by explaining the norm of shares trading and discussing the training methods of lawful trading. According to an SSE official, the bourse will intensify the supervision and punishment by continuously conducting regular or unscheduled examination on the shares trading by listed companies' directors, supervisors and senior management. The SSE will also strictly supervise the insiders of the insider information to urge listed companies' directors, supervisors and senior management to observe the rules on shares trading.

185 Abnormal Trading Cases Investigated in 3rd Quarter
06 Nov 2009
21 companies and relevant personnel were criticized in circulars. The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) publicly criticized 3 listed companies and relevant personnel, criticized 21 companies and relevant personnel in circulars, concluded investigation of 185 abnormal trading cases and restricted a number of account transactions in the 3rd quarter this year, according to its 3rd quarter report on self-regulation management of 2009 published yesterday. From July to September, the SSE conducted a series of self-regulation supervision over listed companies' information disclosure, membership management and market trading behaviors: first, laying a more solid foundation for self-regulation supervision by making special supervision and examination on business rules and perfecting disciplinary punishment mechanism; second, publishing business rules including the "SSE Guidelines for Continuous Supervision over Listed Company” to impose more severe punishment on listed companies for their violations; third, urging its members to strengthen client management through business and technical supervision; fourth, improving supervision effectiveness by deterring speculations in time and cracking down on short-term manipulations. This quarter, the SSE Disciplinary Committee reviewed disciplinary punishments over 29 suspected violations including opening price manipulation and short-term transaction, which exerted a positive influence on strengthening supervision over illegal acts and enhancing supervision authority. In addition, the SSE publicly criticized 3 listed companies and relevant personnel, criticized 21 companies and relevant personnel in circulars and expressed supervision concerns to relevant behaviors and events of 17 listed companies. It is learnt that the SSE found in its supervision over listed companies that the violations in the 3rd quarter mainly involved illegal disclosure of information and breaking of commitments made in equity division reform. As for members' client management and technical risk control, the SSE took the following measures: promoting members' client management and reinforcing members' technical management; perfecting supervision measures over members to guide members to do a good job in risk disclosure; stressing joint supervision and communication and cooperation outside the bourse with a view to perfecting member supervision rules and systems. Moreover, the SSE, after consulting its relevant departments, further perfected the "Detailed Rules on Administration of Non-member Transaction Participants” (First Draft) to strengthen the construction of member management system. It is also noted in the report that the SSE will further intensify punishment over listed companies for their violations to improve the supervision effectiveness by deterring speculation in time and cracking down on short-term manipulation. Since the re-launching of IPO in the 2nd half of the year, the SSE has made centralized deployment and careful arrangement to prevent the possible over-speculation of new shares. Furthermore, great efforts were made to monitor and stop the short-term manipulation such as call action manipulation and closing price manipulation with active supervision measures. On the other hand, the SSE effectively raised its supervision deterrent and effectiveness in terms of supervision over to-be-due warrants and shareholding decrease of non-tradable shares. Aiming at the frequent occurrence of illegal shareholding decrease of non-tradable shares, the SSE intensified its efforts in monitoring and striking. According to statistics, in the 3rd quarter, the SSE concluded investigation of 185 abnormal trading cases in total, with 70 written warning letters issued and a number of account transactions restricted. Besides, upon investigation and analysis, a stream of clues to violations including market manipulation and insider dealing were discovered in time and reported to the China Securities Regulatory Commission for case placing and further investigation.

Classified Management to Foster a Steady and Orderly Corporate Bonds Market
03 Nov 2009
Q & A by SSE Official on Classified Management of Corporate Bonds The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) issued the "Notice of Amending SSE Corporate Bonds Listing Rules" and the "Notice of Amending Issuance, Listing and Trading of Corporate Bonds" on November 2, 2009, which were specially formulated in concert with the classified management of issuance, listing and trading of the corporate bonds. Reporter from the Shanghai Securities News has recently interviewed relevant official, who explained some questions and issues concerning the classified management of the corporate bonds. Q: What is the classified management of the corporate bonds? A: Classified management refers to the SSE's differentiated management of corporate bonds meeting its listing conditions in terms of the investors scope and trading platform in the bonds' issuance, listing and trading according to the differences in specific bond credit rating and other indicators. The specific method is as follows: the bonds meeting all the conditions of the classification standard will not be restricted in the issuance and trading objects and could be simultaneously traded through the auction trading system, the block trading system and the comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities (fixed income platform) of the SSE after the listing. The bonds failing to meet all the conditions of the classification standard can only be issued to the institutional investors and can not be issued to the individual investors. They can only be traded on the SSE's fixed income platform after the listing. Q: What is the specific standard for the classified management of the corporate bonds? A: The specific standard is as follows: (1) the facility rating of the issuer is not lower than AA; (2) the net assets of the issuer at the end of the recent period before the bonds listing is not lower than RMB1.5 billion; (3) the average distributable profit per annum of the issuer realized in the recent 3 accounting years before the bonds listing is not less than 150% of the one-year interest of the bonds; and (4) other conditions required by the SSE. The aforesaid conditions must be met at the same time. The SSE may adjust the listing conditions and classification standard of the bonds according to the market situation. Q: What are the standards for relevant accounting indicators in the classification standard of corporate bonds? A: Regarding the standards for such accounting indicators as the "net assets" and "distributable profit" in the classification standard of corporate bonds, they refer to the "shareholders' equity" and "net profit" "belonging to owners of parent company in the consolidated statement excluding minority interests". Q: Which rules will be adjusted due to the classified management of the corporate bonds? What are the specific adjustments? A: Following the classified management of the corporate bonds, relevant regulations in the "SSE Corporate Bonds Listing Rules" and the "Notice of Issuance, Listing and Trading of Corporate Bonds" will be amended and adjusted. The specific adjustments are as follows: In Chapter I "General Provisions" and Chapter II "Bond Listing Requirements" of the "SSE Corporate Bonds Listing Rules", Articles 1.5, 2.2 and 2.3 have been added to specify the regulation that "the SSE shall conduct the classified management of listing and trading towards the bonds which meet the listing conditions according to the credit rating and other indicators", and also to specify such clauses as the "specific classification standard" and the "arrangement of the trading platform after the classification". In the "Notice of Issuance, Listing and Trading of Corporate Bonds", adjustments have been made to such chapters as the "Issuance and Listing of Corporate Bonds" and the "Spot Trading of Corporate Bonds" according to the classification standard and trading platform arrangement. Q: How will the classified management affect the issuance and listing of corporate bonds? A: After the classified management is implemented, the corporate bonds failing to meet the classification standard will be restricted in the scope of issuance objects. According to the regulations, such bonds can only be issued to the institutional investors and can not be issued to the individual investors. This may affect the bond issuance to a certain extent. What's more, the scope of trading objects for such bonds will be restricted to the institutional investors on the SSE's fixed income platform. Current participants in the SSE's fixed income platform are 154 institutional investors recognized by the bourse, such as the securities dealers, fund companies, insurance institutions, finance companies, trust companies and postal savings banks, almost covering the issuance scope of the corporate bonds. But the limited number of participants at the moment may affect the liquidity of the corporate bonds traded on the fixed income platform to a certain extent. The SSE plans to improve the market liquidity by further increasing the number of the traders of the platform. As for the bonds meeting the classification standard, the issuance and trading objects will face no restrictions, just the same as the situation before the classified management is adopted. Q: What is the reason for the classified management of the corporate bonds? A: Classified management of the corporate bonds, not created by us, is a common practice in the international mature markets. Since the pilot issuance of the corporate bonds was launched in September 2007, some debenture bonds also emerged in the market. According to our follow-up analysis and investigation on the debenture bonds, under the backdrop of low bank interest rate, limited investment channels, unreasonable investment habits and insufficient bond investment knowledge in China, some individual investors blindly pursue high earning rate in the bond investment and overlook the hidden enterprise credit risks. Their acts bring about pressure and challenge to the stability and risk control of the corporate bonds market. To steer the corporate bonds market to a stable, sustainable and healthy track from the very beginning and effectively control the debenture bond risks, we hold that, on the emerging and transitional capital market, particularly by drawing lesson from the US subprime mortgage crisis, it is necessary to set up a standard for our corporate bonds market. We will adopt the classified management as well as differentiated issuance and trading mechanism according to different bond credit ratings to prevent the debenture bond risks from spreading to the individual investors. Q: How will the SSE deal with the listed bonds? A: For the listed corporate bonds (including enterprise bonds) failing to meet the classified standard for now, the SSE will adopt the method of "dividing the old from the new", namely, the bonds listed before the implementation of the classified management measures will not be retroactively adjusted. Such bonds can still be simultaneously traded through the auction trading system, the block trading system and the fixed income platform of the SSE. Q: How will the SSE conduct the dynamic management? A: For the bonds listed after the implementation of the classified management of the corporate bonds, if they no longer satisfy the classified trading standard due to the rise or fall of bond credit rating or such financial indicators as the net assets, the scope of bond investors and trading platform will be accordingly adjusted, which is the dynamic management. The SSE will study and formulate specific management measures and make an announcement once the measures are ready. Q: Will the qualifications for collateralized repo of the bonds change after the classified management? A: No. Corporate bonds that meet one of the following conditions can still be the pledged bonds of the collateralized repo: (1) the issuer of the corporate bonds is a solely state-owned enterprise directly under the Central Government; (2) one of the following banks – Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited, Bank of China Limited, China Construction Bank Co., Ltd., Agricultural Bank of China Co., Ltd., Bank of Communications Co., Ltd. and China Development Bank – provides the unconditional and irrevocable guarantee with joint and several liabilities in full amount or the guarantee by mortgaging assets in full amount for the corporate bonds; (3) both the corporate credit rating and the bond credit rating are above AA level (inclusive); or (4) other corporate bonds approved by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. For the enterprise bonds approved by relevant departments of the State Council and the bonds out of the detachable convertible bonds, the qualifications for collateralized repo will be in accordance with relevant regulations of the corporate bonds. Q: Will the classified management implemented on the enterprise bonds? A: Classified management will be implemented towards the enterprise bonds approved by relevant departments of the State Council with reference to the classified management measures for the corporate bonds. Q: When will the implementation of the classified management of the enterprise bonds start? A: The classified management measures for the corporate bonds will be implemented from the day when the SSE's notice is published. For the corporate bonds and enterprise bonds with the issuance and listing applications submitted to the SSE before the implementation of the measures, the listing and trading standards will be executed according to the original regulations.

SSE Central SOEs ETF Launched
28 Oct 2009
October 27 witnessed the 1st ETF, namely, the SSE Central State-owned Enterprises ETF Index Fund, on the market in 3 years after General Manager Guo Tehua of ICBC Credit Suisse Asset Management Co., Ltd. (ICBCCS) and President Chen Geng of Guotai Junan Securities Co., Ltd. stroke the gong to announce the opening of trade on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) that day. The new product provides the investors who keep their eyes on the sector of the state-owned enterprises (SOEs) with another high-efficient investment instrument. All this will further activate the SOEs sector and ETF trading and attract more investors by offering more opportunities for investment in the SOEs. Relevant officials from the SSE and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. as well as nearly a hundred of guests from several securities dealers and assets management institutions extended their congratulations. ICBCCS General Manager Guo Tehua and SSE Vice President Liu Xiaodong signed the "Agreement on Listing". It is learnt that the SSE Central SOEs ETF, the 1st listed ETF in 3 years and the first of its kind ever in China, tracks the SSE Central SOEs Index, which pools 50 stocks of listed companies of SOEs with large market capitalization and sufficient liquidity on the SSE. So, it is also called the "super SOEs blue chip". Benefited from the RMB4 trillion economic stimulus plan of the state and the increasingly speeding process for reorganization of SOEs, the value of investment in SOEs has long been cherished by the investors. Statistics show that in 2009, such indicators as the P/E and P/B ratios of the SSE Central SOEs Index are the lowest among the main indices. By October 21, 2009, the average P/E ratio of the SSE Central SOEs 50 Index had been 22.16 times, lower than that of the SSE Composite Index of 26.63 times, that of the SSE 50 Index of 23.24 times and that of the CSI 300 Index of 25.75 times. Over RMB3 billion were achieved through online cash subscription in a single day, raising 4.5 billion units from a great many excited subscribers during the period of issuing SSE Central SOEs ETF. The securities code for listing and trading of SSE Central SOEs ETF is "510060", with the code for subscription and redemption of "510061". Investors can trade the fund on the secondary market in the same way of purchase and sale of stocks. Besides, they can also make subscription and redemption for the fund through the package portfolio of constituent stocks of the SSE Central SOEs Index on the primary market, with a minimum requirement of 1 million fund units for each lot.

SSE Urges Members to Enhance Client Management
27 Oct 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently issued a notice to urge its members to reinforce client management. According to the notice, members are required to report companies' implementation of relevant issues concerning client transaction management, customer service and investor education. Besides, members are also encouraged to submit self-recommendations on their unique and effective practices in client management. It is the second time for the SSE to call on its member for self-inspection on client management since it published and implemented last year the "Detailed Rules on Members' Management of Clients' Securities Trading" and the "SSE Guidance for Real-time Supervision on Abnormal Securities Trading" (the two rules). The two rules are promulgated by the SSE in succession in May 2008, with an aim to strengthen its members' client management and give full play of their self-regulatory functions on the securities market. After more than one year's implementation of the two rules, the SSE has formed a general picture of its members' client management through self-inspection and on-site examination. Despite their completion of rules and systems, members acted differently while executing them. It will be a long-term task to improve the level of members' client management. The SSE asks its members to continuously bring the two rules into their concrete work. First, they should improve their capabilities in management of client transaction for discovering abnormal trading, as well as their awareness of taking initiatives to regulate and restrict client transaction. Second, they should upgrade their levels of customer service to serve the benefits of their clients by stepping up efforts on risk alerts, providing products meeting their clients' knowledge and risk-bearing capability, and improve their abilities in resolving disputes with their clients. Third, to satisfy the requirements by the SSE on investor education, they should conduct investor orientation more effectively by perfecting their organizational structures and enriching educational content.

SSE on List of China Top 10 Trademark Registration Enterprises
21 Oct 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) was awarded "China Top 10 Enterprises for Madrid International Trademark Registration" at the "Symposium in Memory of the 20th Anniversary of China's Entry into 'Madrid Agreement for International Registration of Trade Marks'" held by the Trademark Office of the State Administration for Industry & Commerce on October 18. It is learnt that the Award, the first of its kind in China, is designed to emphasize efforts made in international trademark registration, with the quantity of applications for Madrid international trademark registration as its selection criteria. Among the ten award-wining Chinese enterprises, the SSE comes out on top in terms of application amount. Focusing on its goal to build itself into a world-class exchange, the SSE, in recent years, has attached great importance to intellectual property protection by formulating and publishing the "Interim Measures for Administration of Intellectual Property" to strengthen the administration of patent, trademark, domain name and copyright, and has been foresighted and proactive in international registration of trademarks. According to statistics, 21 trademarks have been domestically registered by the SSE in succession, with 240 registration certificates obtained. In 2007, the SSE submitted, through the Madrid system, applications for international registration of its 14 core trademarks including "上海证券交易所", "上交所", "上证所" and "SSE", and applied to 20 countries including Britain, the United States and France for territorial extension protection. By now, all of the 14 trademarks have passed the review of the International Bureau of World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), been granted international registration certificates and received confirmation for protection from most countries.

"Securities Law Forum" Invites Contributions
13 Oct 2009
Law Press China has recently published the "Securities Law Forum" (Volume I; Issue of September 2009). The "Securities Law Forum", a legal academic journal published at home and abroad on a continuous basis, was reborn from the former "Securities Law Perspective", which was for internal use of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), by taking advantage of the wisdom and strength of the securities, law and theory communities. It is sponsored by the SSE, with Zhang Yujun and Xu Ming as its editors in chief. The Forum is designed to encourage research, popularize concept and drive construction in the field of legal system of capital market, with an ultimate goal to facilitate the healthy and smooth development of capital market in China. Valuing the integration between academic study and hands-on practice as well as realism and foresight, the Forum will keep a close eye on the legal trends of capital market in its process of reform and development in China by researching into its legislation, supervision, law enforcement and judicial activities, analyzing its law systems and relations and discussing the major, difficult and hot issues encountered in its construction. The main topics covered in the Forum will include legal research on securities law, company law and financial law, research on development of legal system of capital market, legal research on supervision over capital market, legal research on innovation in capital market, study of typical legal cases in capital market and research on legal systems of overseas capital market. The journal sets up such columns as "Theory Front", "Special Research", "Expert Forum", "Hot Issue", "Probe into System", "Market Supervision", "Overseas Practice", "Legal Essay" and "Case Study", which may differ in each volume according to actual situation. Contributions are sincerely invited towards theoretic and practical communities of law, finance and investment nationwide. Please send your contributions, which meet the national regulations on copyright, the generally accepted academic standards and the requirements specified in the "Layout Style" of the Forum, to zqfy@sse.com.cn. Novel topic, scientific argumentation, sufficient evidence, rigorous logic, clear-cut structure and fluent expression are expected from the contributions, with market-oriented ones with high academic quality especially welcomed. About 10,000 characters are preferable to each contribution. Extraordinary outstanding ones, however, will not be subject to this limit. The author will be informed as soon as possible once his/her contribution is accepted, with reward paid and journal sample sent. Higher rewards will be offered for excellent originals. The editorial office of the Forum reserves the right to make literary and technical amendment to the contributions. Articles published in the Forum do not represent the stance of the SSE. Authors of articles shall take all the legal responsibilities in that regard. Except those with special statement, all the opinions expressed in the articles are personal and have nothing to do with the authors' positions or employers. Contributor's contribution to the Forum will be viewed as acceptance of the contribution invitation.

SSE Tightens Regulation on To-be-due Warrants
30 Sep 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently made special deployment of more regulation on speculation against such warrants as the "Tsingtao Brewery CWB1" and "Shenzhen Expressway CWB1" which will soon expire. To curb speculation, it has given warnings to the accounts with large accumulative turnover through heavy intraday trading of warrants. In addition, it has imposed warrant trading restriction on some securities accounts including those belonging to two scalpers surnamed Zheng and Guan. More and more investors have got their confidence back in securities trading since the market was re-activated in the 2nd half of 2009. Taking advantage of the passions of the investors, especially the medium and small investors, for speculation against the to-be-due warrants, some big investors, with a large amount of idle money, speculate in the warrants for profits by misleading the investors to follow suit. By summarizing the previous experience in warrant monitoring, the SSE has issued risk alerts to the accounts with considerable accumulative trade volume through hectic intraday trading. Meanwhile, it has imposed restriction on trading of warrants on some securities accounts with seriously abnormal transactions. Furthermore, it will enhance publicity and education for investors to remind them of the market risks. The SSE asks the investors to invest rationally for preventing trading risks instead of blind speculation or follow-suit. Moreover, it requires its members to effectively assume the obligations of strengthening management on clients’ trading behaviors. To promote the healthy development of the securities market, they should do a better job in risk alert and rules education concerning the to-be-due warrants, collaborate with the exchange on regulation of abnormal trading, and give full play to their self-regulatory functions.

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2009 National Day, Mid-autumn Festival
21 Sep 2009
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the 2009 National Day and Mid-autumn Festival according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2009" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2008] No. 22) as follows: 1. The SSE will close from October 1 (Thursday) to October 8, 2009 (Thursday) and open for trading on October 9, 2009 (Friday). 2. To ensure the normal trading after the holiday, the SSE will provide linkage testing environment of trading system from 9:30 to 12:00 on October 8, 2009 (Thursday). 3. Relevant clearing issues will be carried out according to the arrangements of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange September 20, 2009

Net Profits of SSE-listed Companies See Month-on-Month Increase of 36.96%
31 Aug 2009
Performance of the stocks in the SSE 50 Index is above the overall level. By August 31, 2009, a total of 867 companies listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) have completed disclosure of their semi-annual reports of 2009. In a nutshell, the 2nd quarter sees a greater month-on-month increase in the performance of the companies, especially those in the SSE 50 Index, which boast a stronger performance. According to statistics, the 867 SSE-listed companies realized a total of RMB436.9 billion net profits belonging to the shareholders of parent companies, the earning per share of RMB0.2040 and the return on net assets of 6.88% in the 1st half of 2009, down 9.12%, 13.49% and 18.19%, respectively, compared with the same period of last year. The net profits belonging to the shareholders of parent companies in the 2nd quarter of 2009 were RMB252.5 billion and the earning per share was RMB0.1179, up 5.43% and 0.35% from the 2nd quarter of 2008, or up 36.96% and 33.52%, respectively, from the 1st quarter of 2009. The number of companies suffered losses is 191, increased by 81 compared with the 1st half of 2008. At the end of June 2009, the SSE-listed companies' net assets were RMB6.3487 trillion, increased by 11.05% from the same period of last year. Their business income was RMB4.2142 trillion, dropped by 7.08% compared with the same period of last year. Their net asset value per share was RMB2.96, with a year-on-year increase of 5.87%. In the 1st half of 2009, the net cash flow from operating activities of all the SSE-listed companies were RMB471.6 billion, with a year-on-year decrease of 29%. Their net cash flow from operating activities per share was RMB0.22, with a year-on-year decline of 33%. In the 1st half of 2009, a total of RMB307.8 billion net profits owned by shareholders of parent companies, or 70% of the total of all the listed companies, were realized by the top 10 profit-gaining companies on the SSE, including Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited, China Construction Bank Corporation, Petrochina Company Limited, Bank of China Limited, China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation, China Shenhua Energy Company Limited, Branch of Bank of Communications Co., Ltd., China Life Insurance Company Limited, China Merchants Bank Co., Limited and China Minsheng Banking Corp., Ltd. The business income and net profit of the companies in the SSE 50 Index totaled RMB2.7032 trillion and RMB376.2 billion, accounting for 64% and 86% of the total of all the listed companies, respectively. These large-cap blue chips, the backbone for making profit on the SSE, outperformed the overall level of the SSE-listed companies. Take a close look into the industries. A large proportion of the listed companies slowed down their decline of performance thanks to the RMB4 trillion government investment programs. The performance of banking, mining and wine industries maintained impressive while that of insurance, power and aerospace industries rebounded obviously. Steel companies saw an inflexion point with their losses narrowed down from the 1st quarter of 2009. Companies engaging in precious metals showed a strong performance while non-ferrous metal companies suffered dramatic losses in their performance. In the disclosure of semi-annual reports of 2009, all the listed companies are required to synchronously file XBRL instance documents. By August 31, all of the 867 listed companies had disclosed on schedule their XBRL instance documents on the SSE's website. The application of XBRL enables all market participants to have the access to reliable information. With ensured accuracy and reliability of the data of listed companies from the data source, it has greatly increased the information transparency of the capital market, thus enhancing its operational efficiency. So far, the SSE has partly finished the after-action comment of semi-annual reports, with the remaining work well under way. It is predicted that the whole examination work will be rounded off in the middle of this September.

SSE Issues Guidelines of Election, Conducts of Directors of Listed Companies
26 Aug 2009
Practical rules for due diligence and faithful fulfillment of duties by directors are defined. The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) released, on August 25, the "SSE Guidelines of Election and Conducts of Directors of Listed Companies". With an aim to regulate the election and duty fulfillment conducts of the directors of listed companies, as well as to detail the requirements for their election qualifications and the procedures of their exercise of powers, the guidelines have finalized the basic standards for directors by working out practical rules in terms of due diligence and faithful fulfillment of duties. The guidelines make regulations on election of directors in such aspects as member constitution of the directorate, procedures for nomination of directors, qualifications for holding the position, appraisal and resignation. Especially, it emphasizes on review of the directors' qualifications and the appraisal of their professional qualities and duty fulfillment. According to the guidelines, the nominators and candidates for directors should reply to the inquiries from the shareholders' meeting after making a special remark to the meeting on the conditions of the candidates. The candidates should not be imposed on any administrative sanction by the China Securities Regulatory Commission or any public censure or more than two criticism circulars by stock exchanges in the recent 3 years. Besides, they should not be in the time period, as publicized by stock exchanges, during when they are not suitable for holding the position of director. In light of the company law, the guidelines also require listed companies' supervisors to conduct annual appraisal of directors for due diligence. Based on relevant regulations such as the company law, the guidelines, to meet the interests of listed companies, define the obligations to be faithfully fulfilled by directors, including taking the initiatives to correct the behaviors that damage the interests of listed companies, disclose information on interests relationship as well as other obligations including non-compete, secrecy and shareholding management. In addition, it also requires that the directors should not damage the interests of listed companies for any interests of other parties. Instead, they should, by paying close attention, take necessary measures to prevent listed companies' interests from being damaged. In line with the previous regulatory practices and experience in a long time, the guidelines focus on regulations of the duty fulfillment standards for due diligence of directors. Directors are required to make prudent decisions, for achieving the best interests of the listed companies, on the business interests and risks in the issues to be resolved by the companies, by considering possible judgments by other counterparts in similar situations. They should be not exempted from obligations by taking excuses that they are not familiar with the companies' business or don't know relevant issues. In principle, directors should attend the directorate meeting in person. They can only vote after making clear opinions at the discussion and put them on record. When discussing and submitting the issues decided by the directorate, the directors should first require relevant staff to provide detailed materials and make particular explanations before thinking over the elements for decisions of relevant issues. To avoid the situation that only the chairmen of directorate of listed companies have the conn, the guidelines regulate that the chairmen of directorate should ensure the normal convention of the directorate meeting, and can't, in any way, restrict or hinder other directors from exercising their powers. Besides, they have the obligations to inform the directors of the companies' significant issues. They should not reject without reason but prudently deal with the proposal of holding directorate meeting proposed by a single director and fulfill relevant procedures. Moreover, the guidelines have specified the issues and functions that independent directors should pay special attention to when they exercise their powers. The annual office hours of a director at the listed company, as defined in the guidelines, should not be less than 10 days in principle. According to an insider, the guidelines have the fundamental regulations for election and duty fulfillment of listed companies' directors. It has specified the standards for their due diligence and faithful fulfillment of duties. All this will help the listed companies further improve their qualities and levels of corporate governance.

SSE Initiates Innovation Experimental Platform
19 Aug 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently officially introduced the innovation experimental platform, a financial-simulation-and-modeling-technology-based innovation R&D and experimental system, the first of its kind ever in China. After more than one year's independent research and development, the platform has achieved its preliminary goal of "creating a relatively large-scale environment for business innovation research and experiment as well as sand table exercise". At present, great efforts are being made to explore its potential, with an aim to build a world-class, open and specialized innovation R&D and experimental environment for trading mechanism for supporting and serving the sustainable business innovation. Four Core Technologies Boasted The SSE, based on the characteristics of China's securities market, makes great independent research and development on the innovation experimental platform by taking full advantage of internationally advanced financial technologies. So far, the platform has pocketed four core technologies: First, domestically pioneering intelligent simulation technology. The intelligent simulation technology, adopting the computer-technology-based artificial intelligence, can simulate not only the investors' activities under normal market environment but also the ordinary and extreme order submission, trading and position-holding activities conducted by investors under certain market environment (such as delivery of market quotation, announcement made by listed companies, etc.). The intelligent simulation technology comprises an order simulation generation system and a trading and quotation simulation matching system. The order simulation generation system, utilizing "intelligent agency" technology, arranges parameters, order submission strategy models and three-dimensional feature database based on market, product and investor according to available amounts, position-holding and trading situations set by the system to randomly generate historical, manual, technical trading and intelligent learning orders in real time, so as to achieve the goal of simulating the order submission activities of various market participants. Since the three-dimensional feature database based on market, product and investor and the order submission strategy models take into consideration the different influences resulting from market participants' trading characters, position-holding features, market trading situation, special market environment, intelligent learning capability and other factors, the platform's intelligent simulation technology is capable of comprehensively describing the ordinary trading activities of the investors on China's securities market. The quotation simulation matching system, based on the orders submitted by investors, is able to match transactions in "real time", generate a great many valid experimental data and make further statistical inference and analysis on the simulated market trading results with the help of all kinds of financial modeling technologies. All this will provide the SSE with "wind-tunnel" experimental prototypes to analyze the ordinary and extreme trading activities of different investors under various new trading mechanisms, products and rules. Second, three-dimensional feature database technology based on market, product and investor. The platform subdivides the market in terms of market (including A share, B share, bond, etc.), product (stock, warrant, fund, bond, etc.) and investor (type of investor, market capitalization held, type of shares held, location, age, years engaging in stock market, etc.), and obtains the three-dimensional database, including market liquidity, capital flow, investor's profit and loss, position-holding cost and invested capital, all of which reflect the characters of market, product and investor, according to the historical trading and position-holding data. The database not only depicts the composition of investor, product and market of China's securities market, becoming the main reference for investor's trading characters in intelligent simulation technology, but also provides reference for the platform to use the financial modeling technology to make multi-angle comparison among the market, product and investor. Third, financial modeling technology. Learning from the overseas mature financial modeling technology, the platform establishes a complete series of financial analysis models customized for China's securities market. The existing models enable the pertinent study on relevant issues of securities market by the mining and statistics of mass data including order, trading and position-holding data obtained through historical simulation. So far, the platform's financial modeling technology has developed investor risk analysis model, investor performance analysis model, market quality analysis model, investor trading and holding preference analysis model, product risk analysis model, capital flow analysis model, primary warrant dealer performance evaluation model and investor structure analysis model, covering four aspects of analysis of investor's activities, risk warning, market quality and market trend. Fourth, trade replay technology. The platform's trade replay technology can reconstruct investors' order submission and trading situations within a special period of a special day according to historical trading and order data and generate on demand the indices reflecting the features of the market and investors. Specifically, the technology is able to display all participants' trade details (including remaining submission quantity, holding quantity, carrying cost, realized profit, account type, etc.) and concerned account's information about order submission and concluded and unconcluded deals in different periods, and generate on demand all kinds of indices reflecting market conditions including the depth, width, market impact and fluidity indices of the main order book. The platform's trade replay technology provides the SSE with a powerful research tool to analyze, in detail, all types of investors' order submission activities in special events and how these activities cause abnormal fluctuation on the market. Platform Officially Launched Based on the above core technologies, the platform has completed the development of the following seven functions: first, the analysis on innovation of trading mechanism. This function can not only analyze all kinds of investors' profits and losses, holding positions and changes in market fluidity, volatility and effectiveness in the existing special trading system but also simulate all kinds of investors' ordinary or extreme trading activities under new trading mechanism; second, the product risk tracking analysis can evaluate the investor and market risks of existing and new products in a quantitative manner; third, the analysis on investor's structure and behavior classifies investors in terms of their holding market capitalization, locations, ages and years engaging in stock market to analyze all classes of investors' holding structure (including holding distribution and preference), trading behavior (including trading distribution and preference), price contribution degree, investment profit and loss and their flow among and within securities dealers; fourth, the investor risk analysis and pressure test can not only judge the risks of all kinds of investors in different periods according to their position-holding and trading situation, but also simulate the influence of the market fluctuation on the potential profits and losses of all kinds of investors during the occurrence of one or several extreme events by the pressure test on investors by way of scenario analysis; fifth, the market quality analysis is able to calculate relevant indices concerning market quality, trading order and supervisory performance on a periodic basis, becoming the main source of the indices for the market quality report issued by the SSE regularly; sixth, the special event analysis analyzes investors' order-placing and trading behaviors and the corresponding market changes by reviving the state of the trade order book during the occurrence of special event; seventh, other system innovation analysis includes the analysis on the influence of the introduction of all regulations and systems on the market fluidity and volatility. So far, the SSE's innovation experimental platform, officially put into operation, has created a relatively large-scale environment for business innovation experiment and sand table exercise. All this will not only provide professional services for the SSE but also support the scientific and quantitative research on relevant issues of securities market.

Notice of Amending Assignment Rules for Securities Codes
11 Aug 2009
All member units, To strengthen the management of business and technology and ensure the smooth conduct of transactions on the market, relevant contents in the "SSE Rules on Assignment of Securities Codes" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2007] No.6) have been amended, with the details as follows: I. Book-entry discount treasury bonds business: code segment "020" is newly added for transactions and "107" for in-and-out storage of collateralized repo standard bonds (corresponding to code segment "020"). II. Corporate bonds business: code segments "122000–122499", "104000–104499" and "751970–751999" are newly added for transactions, in-and-out storage of collateralized repo standard bonds (corresponding to code segment "122") and issuance, respectively. III. Business concerning bonds registered in securities accounts with their issuance approved by the National Development and Reform Commission: code segments "122500–122999", "104500–104999" and "751970–751999" are newly added for transactions, in-and-out storage of collateralized repo standard bonds (corresponding to code segment "122") and issuance, respectively. IV. Municipal bonds business: code segments "130", "106" and "751900–751969" are newly added for transactions, in-and-out storage of collateralized repo standard bonds (corresponding to code segment "130") and issuance, respectively. V. Other bonds business: code segment "105" is newly added. "105000–105899" is used for in-and-out storage of collateralized repo standard bonds of detachable convertible bonds (corresponding to code segment "126"), and "105900–105999" for in-and-out storage of collateralized repo standard bonds of enterprise bond (corresponding to code segments "120" and "129"). Code segment "205" is newly added for bond collateralized quotation repo. Code segment "128" is reserved for transactions of exchangeable corporate bonds. The new rules shall take effect as of the promulgation day, with the former "SSE Rules on Assignment of Securities Codes" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2007] No.6)" abolished at the same time. Please cooperate and make relevant arrangements. Shanghai Stock Exchange August 10, 2009

Private Economy in Spotlight: Three Private Enterprises Indices to be Launched
10 Aug 2009
China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) has recently announced that the SSE Private-owned Enterprises 50 Index (SSE Private-owned 50, with the code of 000049), the CSI Private-owned Enterprises Composite Index (CSI POEs, with the codes of 000938 and 399938) and the CSI Private-owned Enterprises 200 Index (CSI POEs 200, with the codes of 000939 and 399939) will be launched on August 25, 2009, with all the base days on June 30, 2009 and the base points of 1,000. The private economy, with its ever-increasing proportion in the whole economy and mounting contribution to the economic growth, has greatly enhanced the operation efficiency of the market economy, thus becoming an important component of the national economy. Besides, the private enterprises as the most vigorous growth engine have played an important role in the national economy, so a growing number of them seek to go public as they expand. The private enterprises indices launched by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the CSI aim to showcase the status and function of the listed private enterprises in the capital market and provide reference and basis for the investors' analysis, evaluation and investment. It is learned that all the candidate constituents of the three indices are listed companies with the domestic (including Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan) natural persons as their actual controllers. Stocks of 50 Shanghai-listed private enterprises with large scale, ample liquidity and typical features are selected as constituents of the SSE Private-owned 50, while stocks of 200 representative private enterprises listed in Shanghai and Shenzhen are selected as constituents of the CSI POEs 200. The above two indices, demonstrating the overall performance of the stocks of the large private companies listed on the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), provide the underlying instruments for the development of relevant indexation investment products. The CSI POEs, comprising stocks of all the private companies listed on the SSE and the SZSE, aims to reflect the overall performance of the stocks of private companies listed on the two markets. According to the latest statistics, a total of over 570 private companies are listed on the two markets, boasting a total market capitalization of RMB2.75 trillion, or 12.24% of that of A shares on the two markets, with the proportion of floating market capitalization of nearly 16.05%. The total market capitalization and the floating market capitalization of the 237 SSE-listed private enterprises are RMB1.36 trillion and RMB1.02 trillion, accounting for 7.68% and 12.20% of that of A shares on the SSE, respectively. The total market capitalization and the floating market capitalization of the SSE Private-owned 50 are RMB783.4 billion and RMB594.5 billion, while those of the CSI POEs 200 are RMB1.88 trillion and RMB1.29 trillion. As of closing on August 7, 2009, the SSE Private-owned 50, the CSI POEs and the CSI POEs 200, closing at 1,142.367, 1,116.323 and 1,117.444, had seen a rise of 14.24%, 11.63% and 11.74% from the base day, respectively. For compilation method and the details of the SSE and the CSI private enterprises indices, please refer to the website of the CSI (www.csindex.com.cn).

Announcement on Releasing SSE Private-owned Enterprises 50 Index
10 Aug 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. will launch the SSE Private-owned Enterprises 50 Index on August 25, 2009 to reflect the overall performance of the SSE-listed private enterprises and provide the investment objects for the investors, with the base day on June 30, 2009 and the base point of 1,000. Attached is the compilation scheme. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. August 10, 2009

SSE Social Responsibility Index Released Today
05 Aug 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. published the compilation scheme for SSE Social Responsibility Index on July 21. Upon trial operation for a period, the index (with the short description of “Responsibility Index” and the code of “000048”) is officially released today. The constituents of the index are composed of 100 SSE-listed stocks with good performance in fulfillment of social responsibility, with the base day on June 30, 2009 and the base point of 1,000. According to statistics, the index’s average social contribution value per share of RMB2.42 and average earning per share of RMB0.69 in 2008 were both higher than the average level of SSE-listed stocks, which fully embodied the thematic character of social responsibility. The objective of the introduction of SSE Social Responsibility Index is to encourage the listed companies to actively perform their social responsibilities, provide investors with a new investment target and popularize the concept of socially responsible investment. As of August 4, the SSE Social Responsibility Index had closed at 1,198.69 points, seeing an increase of 19.87% compared with that on the base day of June 30, 2009.

SSE Issues Work Guide for Continuous Supervision over Listed Companies
30 Jul 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently issued the "SSE Work Guide for Continuous Supervision over Listed Companies" (Work Guide) to standardize sponsors and financial advisors' continuous supervision over listed companies' securities issuance, merger, acquisition and reorganization, equity division reform and listing resumption. With the deepening of the standardized development of the securities market in recent years, intermediaries' duties were increased. Sponsors or financial advisors' continuous supervision is needed after listed companies' IPO, securities issuance, merger, acquisition and reorganization, equity division reform and listing resumption. The continuous supervision over listed companies and relevant parties concerned conducted by sponsors and financial advisors includes the supervision and guidance on listed companies' information disclosure and corporate governance and relevant shareholders' fulfillment of promises. The quality of their continuous supervision has a direct influence on the quality and level of listed companies' information disclosure and corporate governance as well as investors' lawful rights and interests. The "Work Guide" is formulated based on the supervision experience and previous research with a view to standardizing sponsors and financial advisors' continuous supervision. The "Work Guide", summarizing present regulations on sponsors and financial advisors' continuous supervision, facilitates sponsors and financial advisors' overall knowledge of requirements regarding continuous supervision. For example, the "Work Guide" stipulates that sponsors and financial advisors should submit annual and final reports on continuous supervision to the SSE on a regular basis. Meanwhile, it sets down specific rules on issues existing in current continuous supervision practices. For instance, for shareholders who make promises for minimum prices for shareholding lessening in the equity division reform, sponsors of reform should work out continuous supervision plans together with relevant shareholders and their designated securities business departments for trading to leverage technical means to ensure that relevant shareholders will not break their promises. Concerning sponsors and financial advisors' possible failure in due diligence, the "Work Guidance" specifies relevant supervision measures including interviewing, issuing supervisory attention letter, etc. For serious violations, the "Work Guidance" says that the SSE may circulate its criticism and make public censure towards relevant sponsors and their representatives of sponsor, financial advisors and principals. According to an SSE official, in the next stage, the SSE will, based on the practical experience of sponsors and financial advisors, detail the content and format of annual and final reports on continuous supervision.

Notice of Adjusting Some Securities Code Segments for Bonds Issuance
30 Jul 2009
All member units, According to the requirements for issuance of corporate bonds and local government bonds, the Shanghai Stock Exchange has decided to adjust the corporate bonds issuance code segment from the former "751990–751999" to "751970–751999" and the local government bonds issuance code segment from the former "751900–751979" to "751900–751969". Please make relevant preparations. Shanghai Stock Exchange July 29, 2009

SSE Social Responsibility Index to be Launched on Aug. 5
21 Jul 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently announced the upcoming official launch of the SSE Social Responsibility Index on August 5, 2009, with a view to indicating the trend of the stocks with good performance in the fulfillment of the social responsibility in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector and to providing investors with a new investment target. The base day of the index (with the short description of "Responsibility Index" and the code of "000048") is June 30, 2009, with the base point of 1,000. The SSE Social Responsibility Index is one of the thematic derivative indices of the SSE Corporate Governance Index. According to the published index compilation scheme, its constituents are composed of top 100 stocks with high social contribution value per share selected from the constituents of the SSE Corporate Governance Index which have disclosed their social responsibility reports after the screening in terms of fluidity. According to the statistics, the average social contribution value per share of the 100 constituents of the SSE Social Responsibility Index in 2008 was RMB2.42, 62.34% higher than the average level of the SSE Corporate Governance Sector, which fully embodied the thematic character of social responsibility. As of July 17, 2009, the total market capitalization of the 100 constituents had reached RMB6.5427 trillion, accounting for 38.20% of the total of the SSE-listed A shares, and the adjusted market capitalization of the 100 constituents had been RMB2.1534 trillion, accounting for 39.01% of that of the SSE-listed A shares. Following the adjustment to the constituents of the SSE Corporate Governance Index, the SSE Social Responsibility Index undergoes annual regular adjustment, with the time for the adjustment on the first trading day in July each year. Special adjustment will also be made under special circumstances. For the compilation method of the SSE Social Responsibility Index and the detailed materials, please refer to the websites of the SSE and CSI. It is learnt that the objective of the introduction of the SSE Social Responsibility Index is to encourage the listed companies to perform their social responsibilities actively, provide investors with a new investment target index and popularize the concept of socially responsible investment. In recent years, the corporate social responsibility featured in sustainability has increasingly drawn the attention of all market participants. The financial crisis lasting since last year also indicates that the objective of the corporate existence is not to pursue the interest maximization at all costs but to meet various need of the society. More and more people begin to believe that the social responsibility of an enterprise will influence its long-term value. Although the socially responsible investment has made outstanding achievements on the global market in recent years, it is still at its early stage on the domestic market. The introduction of the SSE Social Responsibility Index will not only help the enterprises pay more attention to and fulfill their social responsibilities but also promote the development of socially responsible investment in China through the materialization of the index. At present, CCB Principal Asset Management Co., Ltd. is devoted to the development of the ETF products of the SSE Social Responsibility Index. As of July 20, 2009, the SSE Social Responsibility Index had closed at 1,126 points.

Zhou: Increase Market Confidence by Information Disclosure and Legal System Construction
21 Jul 2009
To do a better job in fair disclosure and make the disclosed information vital and useful to investors will be one of the priorities of the Shanghai Stock Exchange. SSE Vice President Zhou Qinye pointed out at the recent first symposium on "Auditing and Appraising Information and Legal System Construction of Capital Market" that under the current global financial crisis, the appraisal industry and the capital market in China face a common challenge of historical cost and fair value and share a common goal of increasing investors' confidence in the capital market. Zhou delivered a keynote speech at the symposium and proposed the idea of "three in common" concerning the issue of auditing and appraising information and legal system construction of capital market. He held that the first in common refers to the mutual promotion and mutual development between the auditing, appraisal and legal services and the capital market. During the initial period of the capital market, auditing, appraisal and legal services offer the expertise for the capital market and drive the development of the capital market while the capital market boosts the development of auditing, appraisal and legal services at the same time. The second in common means auditing and appraisal and the capital market are encountering a common challenge. He said we usually consider the market price as the fair value. The price at 6,124 points is the market price, and so is the price at 1,664 points. Then, which one is the fair value? The common question requiring the discussion of the auditing and appraisal industry and the capital market at present is how to reflect the real fair value that is recognized by both the market and the public during the fluctuation of the market. Zhou took the third in common for the common goal of increasing investors' confidence shared by auditing, appraisal and legal services and the capital market. Zhou said that the total free float market capitalization of the SSE at the moment reaches RMB8 trillion and that of the Shenzhen Stock Exchange is about RMB2.9 trillion. The over RMB10 trillion free float market capitalization proves that the market is not short of money but the confidence. How to increase the confidence in the market? Information disclosure and legal system construction is one of the major solutions. According to Zhou, the SSE has always attached great importance to the completeness of the information disclosed by the listed companies and has achieved good results in it so far. In the days to come, the SSE will focus on the importance and the usefulness and make the disclosed information vital and useful to investors. Meanwhile, great efforts will be made to ensure the justness of the information disclosure, which is one of the main tasks of the SSE this year.

Compilation Scheme of SSE Social Responsibility Index
21 Jul 2009
The SSE Social Responsibility Index is compiled with stocks with good performance in the fulfillment of the social responsibility in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector as its constituents. The objective of the introduction of the index is to encourage and promote the listed companies to perform their social responsibilities and provide investors with a new investment target index, thus boosting the development of the socially responsible investment. I. Index name The name of the index is SSE Social Responsibility Index, with the short description of “Responsibility Index” and the code of “000048”. II. Index base period and base point The base day of the index is June 30, 2009, with the base point of 1,000 based on the adjusted market capitalization of all constituents on the base day. III. Selection method of constituents 1. Constituent universe The A shares in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector with their social responsibility reports disclosed constitute the constituent universe. 2. Constituent selection Firstly, eliminate the SSE-listed A shares (excluding shares imposed with delisting risk alert and other special treatment) with their places in the ranking list of the average daily trading volume in the year before standing at the last 20% from the constituent universe. Estimate the social contribution value per share of the remaining stocks in accordance with the definition of the social contribution value per shares specified in the “Notice of Improving Listed Companies' Assumption of Social Responsibilities” published by the SSE in May 2008. Then, select the top 100 in the ranking list in terms of the social contribution value per share as the constituents of the SSE Social Responsibility Index. The stocks of the companies which clearly violated the social responsibilities in the most recent year cannot be selected as the constituent of the SSE Social Responsibility Index in principle. IV. Index calculation and modification Same with those of the SSE 180 Index V. Regular adjustment The SSE Corporate Governance Sector undergoes re-appraisal from May to June each year. China Securities Index Co., Ltd. will adjust the constituents of the SSE Social Responsibility Index in early July according to the re-appraisal result. The constituent adjustment proportion will not exceed 10% for each time, with the exception that the original constitutes removed from the constituent universe exceed 10%. VI. Special adjustment In case the constituent of the SSE Social Responsibility Index is temporarily eliminated from the SSE Corporate Governance Sector due to inconformity with the application qualification for the SSE Corporate Governance Sector, it will also be eliminated from the constituents of the SSE Social Responsibility Index. In case special event that violates the social responsibility during the operating period of the index happens to the constituent of the SSE Social Responsibility Index, it will be eliminated from the constituents of the SSE Social Responsibility Index as soon as possible. If a certain constituent is eliminated during the special adjustment to the SSE Social Responsibility Index, no new stocks will be added to replace the eliminated constituent before the next regular adjustment.

Announcement on Launching SSE Social Responsibility Index
21 Jul 2009
To indicate the trend of the stocks with good performance in the fulfillment of the social responsibility in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector, and to provide investors with a new investment target, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) will officially launch the SSE Social Responsibility Index on August 5, 2009. The newly launched Index will select the top 100 stocks with high social contribution value per share from the constituents of the SSE Corporate Governance Sector which have disclosed their social responsibility reports as its constituents, with the base day of June 30, 2009 and the base point of 1,000. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. July 21, 2009

Online Inquiry Service for IPO Subscription Lot-winning Results Draws Great Attention
20 Jul 2009
The free online inquiry service for the IPO subscription lot-winning results, introduced by SSE InfoNet Ltd. last week, drew great attention of investors. A great many investors called the SSE service hotline for relevant information of the service. To facilitate investors' online inquiry of the IPO subscription lot-winning results, an official from SSE InfoNet Ltd. has recently made remarks on relevant questions that investors concerned about. Q: Should the activation of the inquiry password through the SSE trading system be conducted within the trading period? A: Yes. As the activation of the password is completed through the trading system, it should be carried out within the trading period. Q: When activating the inquiry password through the SSE trading system, "RMB1" should be input into the price box. Does that mean the RMB1 commission charge should be paid for the activation? A: The online inquiry service for the IPO subscription lot-winning results is free of charge. The input of "RMB1" stands for activating of the password, while the input of "RMB2" represents cancelling of the previously activated password. The input of "RMB1" and "RMB2" is only used to identify the instructions of "activating the password" and "cancelling of the previously activated password" for the website system. Q: Will the input of the mobile phone number required in the process of user registration at the website cause any potential expenses? A: No. No fees will be charged for inputting of the cell phone number during the process of enjoying the online inquiry service for the IPO subscription lot-winning results. Q: How can the forgotten inquiry password be recovered? A: The forgotten inquiry password can be reset according to the following procedures: Click on "Retrieve Password" at the portal website of SSE InfoNet Ltd. and input the user name and the registered E-mail address on the pop-out page. The website will reset the password and send it to the E-mail address registered by the investor upon examination and verification. The reset inquiry password will be valid within one working day at most. If the user name is also forgotten or the registered E-mail address is invalid, investors can solve it by registering a new user name and activating the inquiry password. Q: Can investors inquire about other relevant business on the website of SSE InfoNet Ltd.? A: Investors can inquire about the online voting results of the shareholders' meetings by binding and activating the shareholder account number after registering at the "Designated Business Department for Securities Trading". For more information about the online inquiry service for IPO subscription lot-winning results, please refer to the website of SSE InfoNet Ltd. (www.sseinfonet.com).

Liu: ETF Enjoys A Big Boom
17 Jul 2009
"The development of ETF has been beyond our imagination and it is now making good time." Vice President Liu Xiaodong of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) said at the ICBC Credit Suisse SSE Central State-owned Enterprises ETF release conference yesterday that the SSE would drive the development of ETF further to enrich the variety of the ETF products and gradually build it into one of the major SSE products. According to Liu, ETF is a kind of open-ended index fund listed and traded in the exchange, which tracks a basket of stocks with the characteristics of low cost, diversified investment, high transparency and high fluidity. Since the birth of the first ETF in 1993, ETF products have flourished rapidly worldwide. As of the end of April 2009, over 3,000 ETF products had been listed on 42 exchanges worldwide, with the asset scale up to US$706.9 billion in total. An increasing number of companies have engaged in the development of ETF products, with the amount of existing ETF administrators more than 90 and a number of fund management companies specializing in ETF products. Meanwhile, the variety of ETF products have been diversified from the single stock ETF to bond ETF and commodity ETF, from the ETF in single market to the ETF across markets and from the passively managed ETF to the actively managed ETF. It is noticeable that ETF products have become one of the most successful products worldwide at the moment as they realized large sums of net capital inflow even under the international financial crisis in 2008 when the global asset depreciated seriously. Liu pointed out that the ETF market in China is still growing, and the SSE has always attached importance to the promotion of product innovation. The introduction of ETF products was the important measure taken by the SSE in recent years to develop the fund industry, perfect the product variety and drive the innovation. On the one hand, ETF products enrich the investment variety and provide investors with a cost-efficient asset allocation tool which tracks index income. On the other hand, ETF product, like the index, is unlikely to be manipulated. With high fluidity, it is one of the major targets of derivatives as well as the cornerstone of product innovation. Through the efforts of all market participants, the SSE introduced the first ETF product to the domestic market in early 2005 and won several international awards. After 4-year development, there are 5 ETF products in the domestic market, with the asset scale of over RMB30 billion and the daily trading volume of approximately RMB2 billion. In terms of the asset scale, the domestic ETF market is the 3rd largest ETF market in Asia following Japan and Hong Kong. With regard to the trading scale, the domestic ETF market is ranked first in Asia and placed among the top 10 globally. As a whole, the development of ETF in the past was successful. The SSE Central State-owned Enterprises ETF introduced by ICBC Credit Suisse Asset Management Co., Ltd. this time is the first ETF product introduced by the domestic market in the last two years. SSE Central State-owned Enterprises Index comprises 50 listed companies with large scale and high liquidity controlled by central state-owned enterprises. These companies are also leading enterprises in 10 to-be-revitalized industries that the RMB4000 billion national investment is planned for. The timely introduction of SSE Central State-owned Enterprises ETF provides investors with an opportunity to share the income of the high quality large-cap stocks in a more easy and transparent way. Liu also stated that with the diversification of the index, the establishment of the supporting mechanisms including the margin trading and securities lending and the stock index futures fuelled the development of ETF. In the days to come, the SSE will vigorously support the development of ETF and facilitate its expansion in terms of industry and type so as to meet the need of investors. There will be a lot of ETF products awaiting the approval for listing in the future. The SSE will actively impel the development of ETF in China and build it into a major SSE product. Liu added that there are still large space for the promotion and marketing of ETF. He appealed to the dealers to support the sale of relevant ETF index funds and work together to drive the development of ETF in China.

Free Online Inquiry Service for IPO Subscription Lot-winning Results Available
16 Jul 2009
SSE InfoNet Ltd. has recently introduced the free online inquiry service for the IPO subscription lot-winning results on its website (www.sseinfonet.com). With the restart of IPO, investors' need for inquiring the IPO subscription lot-winning results was on the rise. Investors could inquire the lot-winning results through the 168 paid phone service provided by the telecom operators before. However, the phone service congestion still arose during the peak time due to different area codes, which annoyed investors a lot. The specific procedures for the online inquiry service for the IPO subscription lot-winning results provided by SSE InfoNet Ltd. are as follows: investors, who have enjoyed the SSE online voting inquiry service for listed company's shareholders' meeting, can use the registered shareholder account number and inquiry password to inquire the results directly. Other investors can enjoy the new service after going through registration and ID identification. Once the registration and ID identification are passed, they will be valid on a permanent basis. The registration processes include: firstly, the investor registers the shareholder account number and inputs the inquiry password on the website, with an activation code (8 digits) for ID identification returned. Secondly, the investor "purchases" the password service (with the code of "799988") through the trading system of the SSE with the price of RMB1 and the quantity of "activation code". Once all of the above is done, the inquiry keyword is activated. Thirdly, on the second day after succeeding in activating the inquiry password, the investor can log on to www.sseinfonet.com with the registered shareholder account number and inquiry password to inquire the IPO subscription lot-winning results. The hotline for the service is 400-8888-400. According to an official of SSE InfoNet Ltd., more information services will be introduced in the future to improve the transparency of the securities market and to facilitate investors' participation in the securities market.

SSE Video Program "Public Lecture on Securities" Premieres
15 Jul 2009
"Public Lecture on Securities", an investor education video program produced by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), was officially aired on July 14. The program will be broadcast to all business departments in China through the broadband broadcasting satellite platform of Shanghai Stock Communication Co., Ltd. Boasting timely transmission and facilitating signal receiving, the platform offers investor education resources to the whole industry by integrating all departments of securities companies nationwide. The program will also be webcast on some mainstream network media including the SSE investor education website and video.sina.com.cn/finance/.  SSE Vice President Xu Ming stated at the program launching ceremony that this year the SSE would highlight its investor education through the construction of the "Six Ones" project, that is, one investor education website, one simulated securities trading platform, one investor education lecture series, one set of investor education series books, one set of rules and systems and one team of qualified investors. As part of the "Six Ones", the "Public Lecture on Securities", among many other means and contents of investor education, is designed to help individual investors, especially small and medium investors, foster mature investment concept so as to improve their competence for market participation. Meanwhile, with the joint efforts of the industry in investor education, the SSE desires to build the program into a "Lecture Room" (a CCTV program that is very popular with the public) specialized in securities industry. The program will invite authoritative experts to explain the securities ABCs and warn of investment risks. By taking advantage of satellite, internet and other advanced technologies, it aims to broaden the coverage of investor education. The first episode of "Public Lecture on Securities" invited experts from relevant companies or institutions and some fund managers to explain "ETF" and "corporate bonds" in a simple way, with a special risk education program concerning typical violation cases. All these efforts were made to facilitate investors' understanding of securities investment risks and how to participate in securities transactions in a lawful manner. For specific program list and broadcasting schedule, please refer to the SSE investor education website (http://edu.sse.com.cn). An SSE official said that to deepen the investor education, the SSE would further cooperate with securities companies, fund companies and other securities institutions to carry out the activities like "Lectures Walk into Colleges", "Lectures Walk into Listed Companies" and "Lectures Walk into Communities", with an aim to build the "Public Lecture on Securities" into a well-known investor education brand.

"Separating Investigation from Review" Pays Off
14 Jul 2009
Since the establishment of the Disciplinary Committee (the Committee) as well as the mechanism of "separating investigation from review" by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) a year ago, the Committee has given its functions into full play by holding 26 review meetings, carried out 10 communication votings, reviewed 89 disciplinary cases and issued 79 disciplinary opinions involving public censure, criticism notices and trading restrictions. All these efforts have seen positive effects. According to an SSE official, to further perfect the self-regulation, the SSE, based on the earnest summarization of the Committee's experience in its operation, would study and formulate its review guidelines and explore an electronic process of disciplinary review, with an aim to standardize the disciplinary punishment, improve the disciplinary efficiency and give full play to the Committee. In July last year, the SSE formulated the "Detailed Rules on Disciplinary Punishment" and set up the Committee to take charge of the review of the disciplinary punishment. Thus, the SSE established the disciplinary mechanism of "separating investigation from review". In other words, the SSE's business departments, including Company Management Department, Membership Department and Market Surveillance Department, are responsible for the investigation of the violations while the Committee takes charge of the review of the relevant disciplinary punishment. An SSE official noted that the positive effects caused by the implementation of the mechanism of "separating investigation from review" can be embodied in several areas. Firstly, the first-line supervision was strengthened through the mechanism. On the basis of the continuous supervision over the regular violations in the corporate governance and the information disclosure of the listed companies, special attention was paid to and quick responses were made according to actual situation to some typical violations emerging in recent years. Such violations included the illegal shareholding increase and decrease by listed companies' directors, supervisors, senior management and shareholders as well as the illegal warrant trading by investors. Secondly, the justness was guaranteed by "separating investigation from review". In the first place, the justness of the process was guaranteed through the standardization of the disciplinary process and the mutual cooperation and supervision between the Committee and the business departments. In the second place, the consistency of the disciplinary review criterion was improved. During the review, the Committee generally referred to the previous cases and strived to avoid the discrepancy in the treatment of similar cases. In the third place, the lawful rights and interests of the regulated objects were safeguarded. Finally, the self-regulation mechanism was perfected through "separating investigation from review". The Committee, a special committee independent of the SSE business departments, is made up of 20 experts specializing in law and accounting from and outside the SSE. Each review meeting will be attended by 5 commissioners, with the decision made collectively. This mode enhanced the supervision and balance within the SSE and materialized the professionalism of the self-regulation. So far, among the 89 disciplinary suggestions proposed by the business departments, 10 have been vetoed or partly vetoed by the Committee due to insufficient evidence for violation recognition.

SSE Completes Annual Appraisal for Secretaries to Directorates of Listed Companies
01 Jul 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently finished the annual appraisal for secretaries to directorates of listed companies. Among the secretaries to directorates of 858 listed companies except the six who took the posts after May 1, 125 secretaries to directorates are appraised "excellent", 460 "good", 266 "qualified" and 7 "unqualified". Besides, the SSE also made a resignation appraisal for dozens of secretaries to directorates who left their posts. It is the first annual appraisal for secretaries to directorates since the release of the "Measures on Qualification Management of Listed Companies' Secretaries to Directorates" and the "Measures on Appraisal of Listed Companies' Secretaries to Directorates" (two Measures) by the SSE. According to the appraisal procedures, each secretary to directorate on his or her post should submit their annual duty performance reports to the SSE at the beginning of May. The report should include such content as good-faith construction, information disclosure, corporate governance and equity management, as well as their assisting the senior management with compliance operation, receiving training and their proposals on regularized development of the securities market. Based on these reports, the SSE worked out the appraisal results by assessing each assignment of the secretaries to directorates in accordance with the conditions known from daily supervision and the opinions from relevant regulatory departments. The said reports, conditions and opinions will have different weights for finalizing the appraisal. The appraisal results showed that the unqualified secretaries to directorates, though very few, failed the appraisal due to the following issues: they acted dishonestly in their information disclosure work; they failed to be due diligent in information disclosure, which resulted in poor disclosure; they were sloppy in giving aid to the senior management in compliance operation, turning a blind eye to the frequent illegal purchase and sale of stocks by the senior management; they were not able to file their annual duty performance reports on schedule. The SSE will send letters to all the listed companies to inform their secretaries to directorates of their annual appraisal results. For the "good" and "qualified" ones, the SSE will give opinions and suggestions on further improvement of their work. And the "unqualified" ones should submit to the SSE their rectification plans. The continuous improvement of the personal quality and the practice level of the secretaries to directorates of listed companies on the SSE over the past few years has propelled the regulated development of the listed companies. Insiders of the industry said that the secretary to directorate, the vital link for operation of a listed company, is the major channel of the company to communicate with the investors. Thus, the good-faith and professional ability of the secretary to directorate will have a direct influence on a listed company's governance level and disclosure quality as well as the investors' rights to learn the truth of the company. As the secretaries to directorates are being gradually transformed into professional managers, it is urgent to regulate their practices. According to the two Measures, an annual appraisal is required for each secretary to directorate of a listed company and a resignation appraisal for the one who leaves the post. Such an appraisal can urge the secretaries to directorates and the listed companies to continuously enhance their disclosure quality and governance level. In addition, it can also standardize the practices of secretaries to directorates and encourage them to further upgrade their profession level. It should be pointed out that the appraisal results of the secretaries to directorates do not closely relate to the information disclosure quality of their listed companies. The appraisal pays more attention to the practices of the secretaries to directorates rather than the disclosure quality which is subject to several factors including the company condition, good-faith level of the senior management and internal control in addition to the practice level of secretaries to directorates.

SSE Partners with Fudan University
23 Jun 2009
On the morning of June 22, on the trading floor of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) the signing ceremony of the memorandum of cooperation between the SSE and Fudan University was held, at which the two parties signed the memorandum of cooperation featured in professional training, collaboration in scientific research and sharing of intelligence resources, thus officially establishing a partnership. Attending the signing ceremony were SSE President Zhang Yujun, Vice President Gui Yonghao of Fudan University and relevant personnel. Through the partnership, the two parties desire to realize the exchange of resources and the complement of advantages, to deepen their social influence in relevant areas and make joint efforts to promote the building of Shanghai into an international financial center as well as the reform and development of China’s capital market. It is learnt that under the cooperation framework, the SSE will facilitate the visits and social practices of the students from Fudan University in the SSE, while Fudan University will support the SSE’s personnel training. The two parties will also carry out joint research on their commonly interested advanced subjects in the fields of securities and finance, engage each other’s experts to conduct teaching and scientific research and jointly establish the post-doctoral workstation. In his speech at the ceremony, Zhang noted that the SSE has always attached great importance to the construction of professional ranks and long dedicated itself to the exploration of the new professional training model and the digging of resources for professional training. Therefore, early this year, the SSE made special study and formulated the plan of establishing the partnership with domestic and overseas famous academies and financial institutions. The partnership with Fudan University contributes not only to the training of SSE’s financial talents and their research on securities and finance, but also to the extension of scope and domain of the SSE’s professional training. All of the above is of great importance to the building of the SSE into a world-renowned exchange and Shanghai into an international financial center. Gui stated in his speech that as a famous university boasting over a-hundred-year splendid history, Fudan University has always readily assumed its social responsibilities: pursuing advancement, concern for people’s livelihood, nurturing talents and serving economy. The partnership established by Fudan University together with the SSE this time provided a sound learning and practice platform for the students of Fudan University as well as enabled the two parties to make full use of their advantages to promote the building of Shanghai into an international financial center. At the signing ceremony, the two parties inaugurated the “SSE Social Practice Base for Students of Fudan University”.

Four Indices to be Launched, SSE Scale Indices System Completed
18 Jun 2009
Based on the SSE 50 Index and the SSE 180 Index, the SSE Scale Indices, finalized recently by China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI), will be launched officially on July 3, 2009. The four new indices, including the SSE Small-cap Index, SSE Mid-cap Index, SSE Small & Mid-cap Index and SSE All-share Index, together with the SSE Mega-cap Index, SSE 50 Index and SSE 180 Index, constitute the SSE Scale Indices System. Among them, the SSE 50 Index is the large-cap index and the SSE 180 Index the large and mid-cap index. The SSE Mid-cap Index covers 130 companies in the constituents of the SSE 180 Index that are not in the SSE 50 Index. The SSE Small-cap Index selects the top 320 stocks by overall ranking of the shares remained in the constituent universe (after excluding the constituents in the SSE 180 Index) according to their total market capitalization and turnover. The introduction of the SSE Scale Indices, perfecting the SSE's index system, provides more instruments for market analysis and investment appraisal. Also, it provides more choices for innovation of such index products as index funds and ETF. According to latest statistics, the total market capitalization and the floating market capitalization of the SSE Small-cap Index, SSE Mid-cap Index, SSE Small & Mid-cap Index and SSE All-share Index account for 12.17% and 19.61%, 14.66% and 22.78%, 26.83% and 42.39%, and 93.41% and 90.82%, respectively, of the total. By June 17, 2009, the SSE Small-cap Index, SSE Mid-cap Index, SSE Small & Mid-cap Index and SSE All-share Index had closed at 2,686.52, 2,712.06, 2,704.42 and 2,441.12 points, up 168.7%, 171.2%, 170.4% and 144.1%, respectively, from the base day. For compilation method and the details of the SSE Scale Indices, please refer to the websites of the SSE (www.sse.com.cn) and the CSI (www.csindex.com.cn).

SSE, CSI Update Industry Classification of Listed Companies
12 Jun 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently published the adjusted industry classification of A-share listed companies on the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange according to the annual reports of 2008. The adjustment involves 101 A-share listed companies, among which 76 companies have gone through adjustment of primary industry classification. Such adjustment helps to better reflect the listed companies' industry structures and enhance the investment research for market participants. Moreover, it facilitates investors' tracing and studying of such indices as the SSE 180 Index and the SHSE-SZSE300 Index. Based on Chinese listed companies' business activities, the industry classification was finalized by referring to the current international industry classification standard. For the methodology and results of industry classification, please refer to the SSE website (www.sse.com.cn) or the CSI website (www.csindex.com.cn). The adjustment will take effect on July 1, 2009. [SSE Industry Classification]     [CSI Industry Classification]

Notice of Reporting Relevant Account Information for Record by Allotees of New Shares' Offline Issuance
12 Jun 2009
All allotees of new shares' offline issuance, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby requires allotees participating in the new shares' offline issuance to report relevant securities accounts for record according to the actual conditions, so as to implement the "Guidance Opinion on Further Reforming and Improving New Shares Issuance System" (hereinafter referred to as the "Guidance Opinion") of the China Securities Regulatory Commission and enhance the effective management of allotees' securities accounts. If the allotees do not participate in the new shares' offline issuance, they do not need to do so. The requirements are as follows: I. Reporting contents: an allotee's securities account of the SSE-listed A shares registered at the Securities Association of China (SAC) and the related accounts, including all the securities accounts of the SSE-listed A shares with the same name and certificate number as that of the securities account registered by the allotee at the SAC as well as other securities accounts of the SSE-listed A shares opened by the allotee; II. Reporting method: inquirees of new shares' offline issuance should log on the SSE's electronic subscription platform for new shares' offline issuance with the CA certificates and upload the account information of the previous item through the "Import Interface of Allotees' Related Accounts" in the attachment format; III. Reporting time: from 09:30 to 15:00 on the first day of preliminary inquiry of each new share's issuance; IV. According to the regulations in the "Guidance Opinion", an allotee can choose either the online or offline subscription in each new share's issuance. Any allotee participating in the offline quotation shall not participate in the online subscription. The SSE will take corresponding measures depending on the situation once it discovers allotees simultaneously subscribe for new shares online and offline or have omission or errors in reporting relevant account information. The measures include but are not limited to suspending allotees' online subscription for new shares, requesting the competent authority to cancel the allotee's qualification for offline allocation and punishing the institutions that manage the allotees. Telephone numbers for business support: 021-68802189, 021-68804485 Telephone number for technical support: 021-68800406 Shanghai Stock Exchange June 11, 2009

New English Website to Promote Global Influence of Shanghai Securities Market
09 Jun 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently launched its updated English website (http://www.sse.com.cn/en/) to expand the international influence of Shanghai securities market. The new website, showing the vigorous efforts by the SSE for building itself into a world-class bourse, provides a better channel for international investors to understand and participate in this thriving securities market. The new edition website demonstrates the rapid growth of Shanghai securities market in recent years in such areas as market size, system construction and technology development by expanding the columns from 68 to 136, adding substantial market statistics in English and introducing such innovation results as the fixed income platform. To meet the international investors' needs of obtaining in time the trading and announcement information of listed companies, the updated version launched many functions including search of market information as well as browse and search of listed companies' announcement abstracts in English. Considering the browsing habits of foreign users, the SSE has adjusted and optimized the way for information guidance in the new website by adopting the common UTF code, creating an easy-to-use and user-friendly website with unified page style and clear structure. In future, the SSE will continue to build the efficient and transparent securities market and spread the market's influence at home and abroad by strengthening information disclosure and diversifying internet businesses based on its Chinese and English websites, thus making contribution to construction of Shanghai into an international financial hub as well as the sustainable development of China's economy.

Notice of Informing the Public of "Corporate Governance Sector" New Candidates
09 Jun 2009
To perfect China's listed companies' governance mechanism and promote the long-term sound development of the capital market, China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI), supported by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), officially launched the corporate governance sector in January 2008. According to the "Appraisal Measures of SSE Corporate Governance Sector", after the completion of annual reports disclosure, the CSI adjusted the corporate governance sector and received voluntary applications from new companies on the basis of the original 230 companies. By the end of May 2009, the CSI had received valid application materials from 23 companies. It hereby publicizes these companies for the public to review their governance and put forward constructive suggestions or comments. Please submit the suggestions or comments in written form or by email to the CSI before June 11, 2009. Contact methods: Fax: 8621-68829830 Email: zhliu@sse.com.cn Add: Liu Zhenhua, 13/F, South Tower, Shanghai Stock Exchange Building, 528 South Pudong Road, Shanghai Postcode: 200120 China Securities Index Co., Ltd. June 8, 2009

SSE to Take Measures to Punish Short-term Manipulation
02 Jun 2009
A one-month trading restriction was imposed on an account of an individual investor called Wu Baozhen. The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has imposed a trading restriction on an account belonging to Wu Baozhen, an individual investor, with an aim to crack down on short-term manipulation. According to the SSE, the account has been suspected of repeated short-term manipulations by frequent orders and withdrawal of orders with no purpose of real transaction. It is learnt that Wu's account was very active in the recent period in manipulations of such stocks as *ST Tai Yuan Tianlong Group Co., Ltd., Gansu Yasheng Industrial (Group) Co., Ltd. and Insigam Technology Co., Ltd. By a large number of frequent orders and withdrawal of orders or big orders pushing up the prices to the upper trading limit, the purchases are not for real transactions but to mislead other investors' judgment on the trends of supply and demand as well as the prices of the stocks and make them follow suit. The account was still active in such transactions despite a series of measures taken by the SSE including many oral and written warnings to Wu against the illegal behaviors. Therefore, the SSE decided to take disciplinary measures by adopting a one-month trading restriction on the account, as the transactions have disturbed the normal order of the securities market and had a negative impact on other investors' investment decisions. According to an SSE official, it has proved to be effective to some extent in curbing short-term manipulations when the SSE carried out trading restrictions on some accounts of related investors suspected of manipulation of the stock of China North Optical-Electrical Technology Co., Ltd. in June last year. But this year, frequent false orders and withdrawals reoccur from time to time in some accounts with sufficient capital. What's worse is that some idle funds are also joining in the game with an increasing number of participants. To caution the illegal behaviors and maintain a normal market order, the SSE will adopt a series of self-regulatory measures including trading restriction, study and perfect a long-term effective mechanism for fighting against short-term manipulations, and further intensify supervision on some typical violations in trading.

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2009 Dragon Boat Festival
25 May 2009
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the 2009 Dragon Boat Festival according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2009" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2008] No.22). The SSE will close from May 28 (Thursday) to 30, 2009 (Saturday) and open for trading on June 1, 2009 (Monday). It will also close on the weekend on May 31, 2009 (Sunday). Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice.  Shanghai Stock Exchange May 22, 2009

SSE to Enhance Transparency by Quarterly Supervision White Paper
15 May 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently issued its 1st quarter report on self-regulation management of 2009, summarizing and briefing relevant self-regulation work in the 1st quarter. The SSE starts to disclose the supervision white paper quarterly since this year to further enhance the supervision transparency and publicize the supervision information and policies in time. According to the report, the SSE has conducted self-regulation management in five areas in the 1st quarter regarding the information disclosure of listed companies, bonds and funds and also the supervision over member companies and market trading. Firstly, relevant self-regulation rules and systems have been improved to lay a more solid foundation for self-regulation supervision. By conducting special appraisal on business rules, the SSE strengthened the implementation of plans to formulate and amend the business rules. Meanwhile, it streamlined the operation of the Disciplinary Committee to improve disciplinary working mechanism. Secondly, supervision over listed companies has been carried out by perfecting rules and guidelines and also imposing more severe punishment. The SSE issued the "Notice of Issues Concerning Implementation of 'Measures on Administration of Listed Companies' Acquisition' and Other Rules", the memorandum on annual work and other supplementary rules and guidelines to increase the supervision flexibility and transparency. In addition, more severe punishment has been imposed on such violations as illegal information disclosure and illegal stocks purchase and sale by listed companies' senior management. In the 1st quarter, the SSE has publicly criticized 4 listed companies and relevant personnel, criticized 6 companies and relevant personnel in circulars and expressed surveillance attention to relevant behaviors and events of 24 listed companies. Thirdly, it stepped up supervision over bonds information disclosure. The SSE's "Notice of Doing a Good Job in Information Disclosure by Corporate Bonds Issuers in 2009" requires all issuers to strictly implement relevant stipulations in the "SSE Corporate Bonds Listing Rules" and fulfill the information disclosure responsibilities and obligations. Fourthly, members' management has been upgraded through client management and technical management. Warrants risk prevention and supervision are strengthened to urge members to improve the client management of warrants business. The SSE has also promoted the implementation of the "Detailed Rules on Technical Management of Member's Trading and Related Systems" by members to upgrade their technical management. Besides, members' management has been upgraded by cooperation and exchange outside the bourse. Fifthly, supervision over illegal trading has been reinforced with focus on supervision over warrants and big/small non-tradable stocks. In the 1st quarter, the SSE has discovered and investigated 147 abnormal trading events, with 81 warning phone calls to business departments of securities companies, 2 letters of supervision enquiry and 29 letters of supervision for members, 5 interviews with member companies, 5 visits to members' business departments and 4 cases of trading limits to securities accounts. By investigations and analyses, the SSE has discovered several evidences of suspected violations including market manipulation and insider trading, and requested the China Securities Regulatory Commission to put them on file or conduct further investigations. In curbing warrants speculation, shareholding lessening beyond required proportion by major shareholders and other abnormal trading, the SSE adopted such supervision and punishment measures as trading suspension and trading limits to securities accounts in a flexible way to effectively raise supervision deterrent and effectiveness. According to an SSE official, the SSE started to publish the annual white book since 2005 to systematically summarize and analyze the self-regulation management throughout the year, which gained much attention and positive comments from the market. For better supervision transparency and due disclosure of supervision information and policies, the SSE had released the quarterly white book since the 3rd quarter of 2008, and the quarterly disclosure will be implemented in each quarter of 2009. The annual and quarterly white papers, an important channel for the market to learn the supervision information, have also served as a platform and bridge of exchanges between the regulator and market participants.

SSE CSR Index to be Launched in Mid-year
12 May 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held the seminar on listed companies' social responsibilities on May 11, 2009, which aims to guide listed companies to proactively assume social responsibilities and encourage more to voluntarily disclose information of their undertaking of social responsibilities, under the vision of the implementation of the Scientific Outlook on Development, the construction of a harmonious society and the sustainable development of the economy and society. In summary and analysis of the current situation, the seminar pictured how Chinese enterprises, especially listed companies, undertake social responsibilities and disclose social responsibility reports. In addition, the meeting introduced the SSE Corporate Social Responsibility Index (SSE CSR Index), which is under compilation, and discussed the international practice of social responsibility evaluation and investment. The meeting serves to promote concepts of socially responsible investing and foster development of relevant investment products on China's market. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is gradually accepted by Chinese society thanks to the joint efforts made by the academic and the business communities. More and more people realized the importance of CSR to the sustainable development of the economy and society. Listed companies, as China's leading enterprises, are duty-bound in fulfilling the social responsibilities. In recent years, the governance of China's listed companies has improved a lot as a result of the concerted efforts of the China Securities Regulatory Commission and all participants of the securities market. Under the nascent modern corporate governance framework, employment, incentive, restraint and supervision combine Chinese characteristics with international standards. Such governance framework is the prerequisite to advocating enterprises to fulfill social responsibilities. The emergence and spreading of global financial crisis since last year have proved again that the corporate governance mode in pursuit of profit regardless of social responsibility is inadvisable, and CSR should be stressed in China's capital market. In recent years, the SSE has taken multiple measures to encourage listed companies to improve governance and fulfill social responsibilities, with positive results achieved. The "Appraisal Measures of SSE Corporate Governance Sector", launched by the SSE in October 2007, offered a comprehensive and systematic evaluation of listed companies' governance for the first time. In 2008, the SSE and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) launched the SSE Corporate Governance Index and the SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index in succession, and actively promoted the development of relevant ETF products. In May 2008, the SSE issued the "Notice of Improving Listed Companies' Assumption of Social Responsibilities and Launching 'SSE Guideline on Environmental Information Disclosure by Listed Companies'", encouraging listed companies to disclose social responsibility reports. On December 31, 2008, the SSE issued the "Notice of Doing a Better Job for Disclosing 2008 Annual Reports", requesting that the companies which were in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector or issued foreign capital stocks listed abroad and the financial companies should disclose the reports on the fulfillment of social responsibilities. According to statistics, 290 SSE-listed companies disclosed their social responsibility reports in 2009, among which 282 companies made the disclosure for the first time and 32 disclosed voluntarily, demonstrating that listed companies began to attach importance to their social responsibilities. Listed companies' social responsibilities are also closely linked with investors' behaviors as investors will greatly influence listed companies' social responsibilities. Mature markets' experience shows that socially responsible investing, a propeller of CSR, generates a higher return on investment in general. As China's stock market is still in the early development stage, most investors haven't regarded CSR as the basis for stock selection, and the socially responsible investing has just took off. The SSE and CSI are pressing on with the development of the SSE CSR Index, which is scheduled to be launched in mid-year. The index will serve as an effective socially responsible investing benchmark for investors, also a favorable underlying instrument for fund companies to launch fund products, so as to promote the development of social responsible investing in China and boost listed companies to actively fulfill their social responsibilities.

RMB0.35 EPS Last Year, Large-cap Blue Chips are the Backbone
04 May 2009
As of April 30, 2009, all the 864 companies listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) have completed the disclosure of the annual reports of 2008, with the total net profit owned by shareholders of parent company in 2008 of RMB731.52 billion, the earning per share (EPS) of RMB0.35, the return on net assets of RMB12%, a year-on-year decrease of 14%, 18% and 20%, respectively, and the basic earning per share excluding extraordinary profit and loss was RMB0.334. The large-cap blue chips still served as the backbone in terms of profitability. Centralized Profitability for SSE-listed Companies According to statistics, among the 864 listed companies, 730 made profits and 134 suffered losses, with 68 more money-losing companies compared with that of 2007. Delisting risk alerts were imposed on 19 companies due to losses for two consecutive years, 5 companies were suspended from listing due to losses for three consecutive years, and other special treatments of shares trading were imposed on 2 companies for insolvency. The SSE-listed companies saw the total assets of around RMB45,437.9 billion, the net assets of around RMB6,032.4 billion and the business income of RMB9,187.8 billion in 2008, a year-on-year increase of 15%, 6% and 18%, respectively. The earning per share was RMB2.89, almost the same as that of 2007. PetroChina Company Limited, Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited, China Construction Bank Corporation, Bank of China Limited, China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation, Bank of Communications Co., Ltd., China Shenhua Energy Company Limited, China Merchants Bank Co., Limited, China United Telecommunications Corporation Limited and China CITIC Bank Corporation Limited, the top ten profit-making companies on the SSE in 2008, achieved RMB519.5 billion net profit owned by shareholders of parent company in total, accounting for 69% of that of all companies. Companies in the SSE 50 Index  outperformed the market in general, with the business income of RMB6,079.906 billion and the net profit of RMB641.276 billion, accounting for 66% and 88% of that of all listed companies, respectively, or up 19% and down 8% than that of 2007, respectively. All this demonstrates that the profitability of SSE-listed companies is relatively centralized, and that the large-cap blue chips are the pillar of the market. All SSE-listed companies saw the net cash flow from operating activities in 2008 of RMB2,476.71 billion and the net cash flow from operating activities per share of RMB1.196, a year-on-year increase of 45% and 39%, respectively, showing that the cash income from selling commodities or providing labor services has not been so much affected under the backdrop of the financial crisis. Architecture and Other Industries Bounce Back The international financial crisis in 2008 had great influence on China's economy in terms of the 13 industry categories classified by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. The general industry, manufacturing industry, whole-sale and retail industry, transportation and storage industry as well as the industry of production and supply of electricity, gas and water suffered losses in the 4th quarter, and 8 industries saw negative growth in the net profits in 2008. The transportation and storage industry, the industry of production and supply of electricity, gas and water, manufacturing industry and general industry suffered a decrease of over 50%, yet their business incomes increased except for the general industry (which saw slight drop in business income), revealing that the phenomenon of increasing income without increasing profits was prominent in these industries. Thanks for the supportive state policies, the agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry and fishery industry as well as the architecture industry bounced back from the 4th quarter and kept the growth momentum. According to the annual reports of 2008 of SSE-listed companies, 276 or 31.94% listed companies saw gains or losses from change in fair value. Among them, 53 companies saw RMB10.016 billion gains from change in fair value, and 223 companies saw RMB56.795 billion losses from change in fair value, adding up to a net loss of RMB46.779 billion, or 6% of the net profit of all SSE-listed companies. Enterprises in the finance, insurance and airline industries witnessed significant changes in fair value. Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Ltd., China Life Insurance Company Limited, Air China Limited, China Eastern Airlines Corporation Limited and China COSCO Holdings Company Limited saw the losses from change in fair value of RMB17.668 billion, RMB8.316 billion, RMB7.707 billion, RMB6.4 billion and RMB5.204 billion, respectively. The gains from change in fair value of listed companies were RMB22.838 billion in 2007, but the change in fair value of the annual reports of 2008 saw a decrease of RMB69.617 billion in the contribution to the profits of all SSE-listed companies. In 2008, 109 SSE-listed companies changed the accounting firms due to the merger and name change of accounting firms. Same as that of 2007, the non-standard auditor's opinions were issued on 67 companies' annual reports. Unqualified opinions with stressed issues were issued on 44 companies' audit reports, qualified opinions were issued on 13 companies' audit reports (qualified opinions with stress issues were issued on 4 companies' audit reports), disclaimer of opinion were issued on 10 companies' audit reports, accounting for 65.7%, 19.4% and 14.9% of all non-standard unqualified auditor's opinions, respectively. No company received the audit report of adverse opinion. In terms of profit distribution, 457 out of the 730 profit-making companies put forward the schemes of dividend distribution, bonus shares and capitalized shares. 366 companies paid cash dividend of RMB209.292 billion in total, accounting for 26% of the net profit owned by parent company realized by the 730 profit-making companies, which was RMB806.664 billion. 91 companies brought forth the profit distribution schemes via bonus shares and capitalized shares, boasting a high proportion of bonus shares or capitalized shares. 45 companies offered more than 5 bonus shares or capitalized shares for every 10 shares, 18 came up with the schemes of 10 bonus shares or capitalized shares for every 10 shares, and Zhongjin Gold Corporation, Limited and V V Food & Beverage Co., Ltd. even raised the record-high schemes of 12 shares capitalized for every 10 shares. Quality of Information Disclosure Gets Improved According to the requirements in the notice of annual reports of 2008, the SSE mandated the disclosure of the self-appraisal reports on internal control and the reports on social responsibility for a total of 258 companies of three kinds, i.e. the constituent companies in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector, the companies that issue foreign capital stocks listed abroad and the financial companies. As of April 30, 343 and 288 listed companies had actually disclosed their self-appraisal reports on internal control and reports on social responsibility, respectively. Besides, a number of companies disclosed the aforesaid two kinds of reports voluntarily, among which 194 companies voluntarily engaged accounting firms to issue verification and appraisal opinions on their self-appraisal reports on internal control. Obviously, with several years' efforts, the risk control consciousness and social responsibility awareness of the SSE-listed companies have been further improved. Besides, the SSE required the listed companies to submit their XBRL instances simultaneously during the disclosure of the periodical reports of 2008 for the first time, and included the aforesaid XBRL instances as part of the mandatory disclosure. As of April 30, all of the 864 companies had disclosed their XBRL instances on the website of the SSE as scheduled. The advantage of XBRL adoption lies in that one input enables infinite usage. Meanwhile, the automatic check on articulation inherent in XBRL avoids the occurrence of the unmalicious false information and errors to a large extent. Together with the interactive characteristic offered by data in XBRL, we can use one information source and make comprehensive analyses and comparisons on the information despite the different needs of regulators, investors, analysts, financial reporters or even enterprises themselves towards financial data. Consequently, the accuracy and creditability of the data get improved from the very beginning, the transparency of the information in the overall capital market is greatly increased, and the operation efficiency of the capital market is promoted. The popularization and use of XBRL will improve the quality of the information disclosure by the listed companies and upgrade the internal governance and internal process efficiency of the listed companies to an unimaginable level. Relevant official of the SSE also expressed that it was the first time that the periodical reports had all been disclosed as scheduled, which should be attributed to the great importance attached by the listed companies and the construction of the annual report disclosure system. It is learnt that most listed companies have established the annual report system for independent directors and the annual report working rules for Audit Committee. Prior to the disclosure of the annual report, the SSE successively held 4 training classes to provide necessary instructions for the listed companies on the disclosure of the annual reports. During the disclosure of the annual reports, the SSE released 4 memoranda on annual report work in succession to address the problems in the disclosure of the annual reports promptly. As for some significant issues, the SSE communicated with relevant authorities in time to ensure the effective implementation of the new accounting standard. So far, the SSE has completed the after-action check on some annual reports of the listed companies, and issued 239 letters of opinions on after-action check on annual reports, with other reviews being conducted. It is predicted that the review will be finished at the end of May. Quarter-on-quarter Performance Surge in 1st Quarter Moreover, 864 SSE-listed companies disclosed their 1st quarter reports of 2009 before April 30, 2009 as scheduled. According to the statistics, 637 companies made profits and 227 companies suffered losses in the 1st quarter reports of 2009, with the basic earning per share of RMB0.09 and the return on net assets of 3%, both decreasing 25% than the same period of last year, yet a surge compared with the basic earning per share of RMB0.024 and the return on net assets of 0.8% in the 4th quarter of 2008.

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2009 Labor Day
27 Apr 2009
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the 2009 Labor Day according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2009" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2008] No.22). The SSE will close from May 1 (Friday) to May 3, 2009 (Sunday) and open for trading on May 4, 2009 (Monday). Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange April 24, 2009

W.I.S.E. SSE 50 ETF Listed on SEHK
16 Apr 2009
Listed on the main board of the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (SEHK) on April 15，W.I.S.E. SSE 50 China Tracker Fund, the first exchange-traded fund (ETF) on the Hong Kong market to track the SSE 50 Index, is the 2nd ETF offered by a market outside China's mainland that tracks the SSE 50 Index, following the Nomura SSE 50 ETF listed on the Osaka Securities Exchange. The Fund, with BOCI-Prudential Asset Management Ltd. as its fund manager and KBC Financial Products Hong Kong Limited as its participating securities dealer, raised a total of HK$0.16 billion through an initial public offering on April 9. Consisting of 50 stocks boasting large scale and high liquidity on the Shanghai securities market, the SSE 50 index, one of the best-known stock benchmarks on China’s mainland market, reflects from every aspect the overall conditions of the leading enterprises that are most influential on the market. "Hong Kong is among the most active ETF markets in Asia. We will make continuous efforts in developing our ETF market by introducing a greater variety of high-quality products," said Miss Zhang Zhuohua (Alexa Lam), Executive Director and Deputy Chief Executive Officer of the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC), at the listing ceremony. "With China's sustained economic growth, it is a big opportunity for the international market to invest more in China's A shares. We believe that the W.I.S.E. SSE 50 ETF will be an instrument for both Hong Kong and overseas investors to share the fruits of China's economic growth with an easy access to investment in the core enterprises on the A shares market in Shanghai,"said Mr. Mak tat cheung, Chief Executive Officer of BOCI-Prudential Asset Management Ltd., at the ceremony. "Thanks to the relatively stable and sound fundamentals of the mainland's economy as well as a series of economic stimuli and revival plans and measures implemented by the government, the mainland economy is expected to take the lead, in the near future, to walk out of the shadow of the global financial crisis and achieve economic recovery. We believe that it is a practical and forward-looking choice for us to provide Hong-Kong-market-based investors with more products that are related to the mainland market,” said Ma Zhigang, General Manager of China Securities Index Co., Ltd.   W.I.S.E. SSE 50 ETF opened at HK$20 and closed at HK$20.20, with the volume of 5,053,100 shares and the turnover of HK$ 101.155 million, on April 15, the first trading day.

SSE to Extend Concession Period for Block Trading Handling Fee
15 Apr 2009
The concession period for handling fee of special sessions on the block trading system is prolonged to December 31, 2009, according to a notice issued by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) on April 14 to its member units and qualified investors. According to the previous “Notice of Concession to Handling Fee of Special Sessions on Block Trading System” (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2008] No. 11), the handling fee of special sessions on the block trading system was charged preferentially by the SSE at 10% of the handling fee on the auction trading system (i.e., 0.0011% of the turnover) and the concession period would end after December 31, 2008. To promote special sessions on the block trading system, the SSE decides to extend the concession period to December 31, 2009. Accordingly, all member units are required to cut the related fees from the commission that qualified investors are charged as well as give them appropriate discount on the commission.

Notice of Extending Concession Period for Handling Fee of Special Sessions on Block Trading System
15 Apr 2009
SSE Document Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2009] No. 5 Notice of Extending Concession Period for Handling Fee of Special Sessions on Block Trading System All member units and qualified investors, According to the “Notice of Concession to Handling Fee of Special Sessions on Block Trading System” (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2008] No. 11), the handling fee of special sessions on the block trading system was charged preferentially by the SSE at 10% of the handling fee on the auction trading system (i.e., 0.0011% of the turnover) and the concession period would end after December 31, 2008. To promote special sessions on the block trading system, the SSE hereby decides to extend the concession period to December 31, 2009. All member units are required to cut the related fees from the commission that qualified investors are charged as well as give them appropriate discount on the commission. April 14, 2009

SSE Set Rules to Avoid Asymmetry of Information Disclosed by Listed Companies
13 Apr 2009
Listed companies must report to the exchange for record when receiving research visits from institutions. The Company Management Department of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently issued and implemented the "Notice of Doing a Better Job in Equitable Information Disclosure by Listed Companies" to prevent institutions from accessing to operational data of listed companies before their public disclosure by way of taking advantage of the close ties with the listed companies. The notice stipulates clearly that to ensure equality of all investors of acquiring the same information, listed companies and relevant obligors of information disclosure shall disclose information publicly to all investors at the same time, instead of revealing or leaking out major information to individuals or part of the investors. Now is the peak time for disclosure of annual reports. All kinds of research reports and exchange summaries on listed companies by various institutions are flooding the internet. Although most reports and summaries follow the principle of information disclosure to avoid describing the performance of listed companies, a few do have disclosed to the public the operational information of listed companies. Thus, the SSE Company Management Department has finalized the "Notice of Doing a Better Job in Equitable Information Disclosure by Listed Companies" to avoid asymmetry of information disclosed by listed companies. The notice pointed out that listed companies and their staff shall not disclose any undisclosed information to the attendees when convening shareholders' meetings or receiving interviews and research visits. Directors, supervisors and the senior management of listed companies should inform the secretaries to directorate before accepting any interviews and research visits. In principle, the secretaries to directorate should participate in the interviews or research visits in the whole process. After an interview or a visit, the interview or visit taker should make a record in written form concerning the interview process and the content, sign, together with the interviewer, their names on the record to make confirmation, and ask the secretaries to directorate to file it to the "Section of Listed Companies" on the SSE website by sending written notices to them within two trading days. The SSE encourages listed companies to disclose to the public their operational data of the previous month at the beginning of each month, and hold public explanation meetings after disclosure of periodical reports and important announcements, mainly internet meetings which help various investors, especially ordinary investors, to easily participate in the communication with the companies' senior management. Listed companies should, within two trading days after the meetings, file the meeting records to the "Section of Listed Companies" on the SSE website. The SSE will examine the trading of securities of the interview and visit institutions and their staff according to the interview and visit records filed by the listed companies. The notice stressed that listed companies, together with staff from accounting firms, should do a good job in confidentiality of such information as the profit distribution scheme and the corporate performance before disclosure of their annual reports. In accordance with relevant regulations, a certified public accountant may be informed, at first, of the profit distribution scheme and asked to issue a draft of audit report based on the scheme (all financial data are confirmed except those related to distribution) before the scheme is submitted, as planned, to the directorate meeting for discussion if the directorate meeting is required to discuss the distribution issue. After the directorate makes resolution on the distribution, it should ask the certified public account to issue a formal audit report, on the basis of which the directorate will make resolutions on other relevant issues in the periodic report. The notice also required that listed companies should effectively improve disclosure quality of annual reports and make full discussion on their future development in the "Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A)". In case of any major change in their production and operational environment, listed companies should, in a timely manner, throw daylight on the change's influence on them. If they need to amend the disclosed operational plan or others, they should announce the amended information in due time.

SSE: Public Bidding Invitation for 20th SSE Joint Research Plan
10 Apr 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) is seeking bidders from home and abroad for research subjects in its 20th SSE Joint Research Plan. The SSE had run 19 joint research plans. The plans aim to make full use of relevant domestic and foreign research resources, make intensive research on hot and frontier issues of China's securities market, improve market research, and promote exchange of excellent research results. All this is to provide independent, rational, high-level, forward-looking policy suggestions and implementation schemes for the development of China's securities market. It is learnt that the major research subjects of the 20th SSE Joint Research Plan include: (1) management of state-owned assets and optimization of governance structure of listed companies controlled by central state-owned enterprises; (2) mechanism to curb capital occupation by major shareholders of listed companies; (3) design of incentive system for senior management of listed companies; (4) analysis on the modes of overall listing of listed companies and their effects; (5) non-fair connected transactions and the prevention system; (6) short-swing manipulation modes and regulation; (7) comparison of systems for qualified investors; and (8) innovation of index-linked products (including ETF and ETC).

Public Bidding Invitation for 20th SSE Joint Research Plan
10 Apr 2009
To meet the development needs of China's capital market, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) had run 19 SSE Joint Research Plans. The plans aim to make full use of relevant domestic and foreign research resources, make intensive research on hot and frontier issues of China's securities market, improve market research, and promote exchange of excellent research results. All this is to provide independent, rational, high-level, forward-looking policy suggestions and implementation schemes for the development of China's securities market. To ensure the accessibility to the bidders and enhance the quality and efficiency of the research plan, the SSE seeks bidders from home and abroad for research subjects. Major research subjects of the 20th SSE Joint Research Plan include: 1. Management of state-owned assets and optimization of governance structure of listed companies controlled by central state-owned enterprises; 2. Mechanism to curb capital occupation by major shareholders of listed companies; 3. Design of incentive system for senior management of listed companies; 4. Analysis on the modes of overall listing of listed companies and their effects; 5. Non-fair connected transactions and the prevention system; 6. Short-swing manipulation modes and regulation; 7. Comparison of systems for qualified investors; 8. Innovation of index-linked products (including ETF and ETC). Applicants should submit application form and specific research plan on the suggested subjects prior to the deadline on April 28. The submitted materials include research scope, research significance, existing research works, research outline, expected result, brief introduction of project group staff, research schedule, research method and research expenditures. The SSE will, after the deadline, finalize the undertaker for selected subjects according to research strength and plan of applicants. Institutional applicants can download the application form at the SSE website (http://www.sse.com.cn), or contact the SSE Research Center via telephone, fax, email, etc. Liaisons: Ms. Lu, Mr. Zhang Tel: 68800095，68800094 Fax: 021-68813828 Email: expert3@sse.com.cn. Shanghai Stock Exchange April 9, 2009

Announcement on Publishing SSE Mega-cap Index
09 Apr 2009
To reflect the overall performance of the mega-cap stocks listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and provide investment objectives for indexation investment products, the SSE and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) will officially release the SSE Mega-cap Index on April 23, 2009, with the base day of December 31, 2003 and the base point of 1,000. Attached is the compilation scheme. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. April 9, 2009 Compilation Scheme of SSE Mega-cap Index I. Index name and code The short description of SSE Mega-cap Index is SSE Mega-cap, with the code of 000043. II. Base day and base point The base day of the index is December 31, 2003, with the base point of 1,000. III. Selection method of constituents 1. Constituent universe The constituent universe of the index are constitutes of the SSE 180 Index. 2. Selection method First, calculate the stock's A-share average daily trading volume and average daily total market capitalization in the constituent universe in the most recent year (or since its listing if it is a new stock); Second, rank the stocks in the constituent universe from high to low according to their A-share average daily trading volume and average daily total market capitalization in the most recent year, add up a stock's two ranking results based on the said two indicators to get the stock's overall ranking, and select in principle the top 20 stocks as the constituents. In the index, the number of constituents of the single first-class industry categorized according to the SSE industry classification method is limited to not more than six. IV. Index calculation and modification The index is calculated by equal weight method, and the formula is as follows: Index in the reporting period = (the adjusted market capitalization of the constituents in the reporting period／divisor) ×1000 The adjusted market capitalization = ∑ (stock price×\u35843X the adjusted issued shares×\u31561X the factor of weight), and the calculation method of the adjusted issued shares is the same as that of the SSE 180 Index. The equal weight factor is set so that the weight of a single constituent will be equal to 5%. The modification of the index is the same as that of the SSE 180 Index. V. Constituent adjustment In line with the principle of constituent stability and dynamic tracking, the index will have two regular examinations on its constituents. Adjustment to the constituents will be made according to the examination result. The proportion of adjustment will not exceed 10% in principle. The adjustment will be implemented on the first trading days of January and July on a yearly basis. A buffer is set for the regular constituent adjustment, i.e., the new constituents among the top 16 will have the entry priority and the original constituents among the top 24 will have the retaining priority. If the index's constituents encounters such issues as merger, they will be specially adjusted. The index will be adjusted correspondingly according to its constituent selection rules when a newly-issued stock has speedy entry into the SSE 180 Index. VI. Adjustment to equal weight factor The equal weight factor will be adjusted twice a year on the 1st trading days of January and July following the constituents' regular adjustment. The equal weight factor in the adjustment will be calculated according to the adjusted market capitalization at the closing of the last trading day before the adjustment. In case of a special adjustment to constituents, the stock newly entered into the index will inherit the weight of the deleted stock on the last trading before the adjustment, on the basis of which the equal weight factor of the newly-entered stock will be calculated. If the constituent's weight sees a sudden change due to the obvious change in the equity structure of the constituent or other reasons, it will be decided whether a special adjustment is to be implemented on the equal weight factor.

Notice of Publishing English Version of "Rules Governing the Listing of Stocks on Shanghai Stock Exchange (Revised in 2008)"
09 Apr 2009
All related listed companies, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby publishes the English version of the "Rules Governing the Listing of Stocks on Shanghai Stock Exchange (Revised in 2008)" (For details, please refer to the website of the SSE [www.sse.com.cn]) to urge the listed companies' foreign directors and senior management as well as their overseas shareholders to strictly observe the Rules. All listed companies are required to abide by the Rules. In case of any discrepancy between the English and the Chinese versions of the Rules, the Chinese shall prevail. Shanghai Stock Exchange April 7, 2009

SSE Takes New Measure to Build Shanghai into an Int'l Financial Center
09 Apr 2009
Relevant listed companies are required to follow the English version of "Rules Governing the Listing of Stocks on Shanghai Stock Exchange (Revised in 2008)" (the Rules), released by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE). This is another initiative by the SSE to bolster the building of Shanghai into an international financial center. According to an SSE notice on the issue, the initiative aims to urge the listed companies' foreign directors and senior management as well as their overseas shareholders to strictly observe the Rules. In case of any discrepancy between the English and the Chinese versions, the Chinese one shall prevail. An SSE official said that the new initiative, a material measure for propping up the construction of Shanghai into an international financial center, also aims to provide a better service for companies listed simultaneously on several markets in addition to the Shanghai market as well as the overseas investors by facilitating their understanding of relevant regulatory rules of the SSE.

Benchmark for Blue-chip Market: SSE Mega-cap Index to be Released
09 Apr 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) recently announced that they will officially release the SSE Mega-cap Index (SSE Mega-cap, with the code of 000043) on April 23, 2009, with the base day on December 31, 2003 and the base point of 1,000. Along with the sustained and rapid economic growth as well as the continuous improvement of the capital market system, China's securities market has gradually bred a number of super listed companies boasting core competitiveness, large scale and strong profitability. These enterprises have become the backbones of China's economy and also the main force of the blue-chip market in Shanghai. To reflect the overall performance of the stocks of these super listed companies and to provide an underlying instrument for the development of indexation investment products, the SSE Mega-cap selects 20 mega-cap stocks as the constitutes on the SSE with large scale and high liquidity. To enhance the index's representativeness and investment availability, the number of single first-class industry constituents of the mega-cap index is limited to not more than six. Meanwhile, the mega-cap index will be the first of its kind to adopt equal weight calculation method, so as to reduce the impact of some exceptionally large-cap stocks on indexation investment products. Mega-cap stocks, favored by investment products due to their strong representativeness and high liquidity, mostly are the major objectives of indexation investment products and derivatives on the international market. It is learnt that Bosera Fund Management Co., Ltd. has been authorized to use the SSE Mega-cap for developing ETF. The ETF product, with relevant scheme soon to be reported to the higher level of authority, is expected to launch within the year. The latest data show that the total market capitalization and the floating market capitalization of the constituents of the SSE Mega-cap are about RMB6,155 billion and RMB1,036 billion, accounting for 47% and 26% of the total of the A Shares on the SSE, respectively. Dividends distributed from these constituents accumulated to RMB28.9 billion in 2008, accounting for 47% of the total from the SSE-listed companies. By April 8, 2009, the SSE Mega-cap closed at about 2,082 points, up 108.2% from the base day. For compilation method and the details of the SSE Mega-cap, please refer to the websites of the SSE (www.sse.com.cn) and CSI (www.csindex.com.cn).

Notice of Relevant Issues of Category Management of Book-entry Treasury Bonds
08 Apr 2009
All member units and fixed income platform traders, According to the document of the "Notice of Implementing Category Management of Book-entry Treasury Bonds" of the Ministry of Finance (Cai Ban Ku (2009) No. 41), the book-entry treasury bonds have been classified into two categories, namely, the book-entry discount treasury bonds and the book-entry coupon treasury bonds. To cooperate with relevant work of category management of treasury bonds, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the following relevant issues: 1. A book-entry discount treasury bond is issued by the Ministry of Finance at a discount price lower than its face value, with the term of less than one year (excluding one year). Its principal will be repaid at the face value at maturity. 2. A book-entry coupon treasury bond is issued by the Ministry of Finance, with regular payment of interest and the term of more than one year (including one year). Its principal will be repaid and its interest will be paid at maturity 3. The issue numbers of these two bonds will be in their respective orders. The code for a book-entry coupon treasury bond to list and trade on the SSE is "019×××". The 4th digit stands for the issuance year, and the 5th and 6th digits for issue number. The corresponding in-and-out storage code of the bond is "090×××". For example, the code "019903" means it is a book-entry coupon treasury bond issued in 2009, with the issue number of 3. Short description for the bond is "09 Treasury Bond 03", and its in-and-out storage code is "090903". The code for a book-entry discount treasury bond to list and trade on the SSE is "020×××" in sequence. The corresponding in-and-out storage code of the bond is "107×××". For example, the code "020001" means it is a book-entry discount treasury bond listed on the SSE after the notice is published, with the issue number of 1. Short description for the bond is "09 Discount Bond 01", and its in-and-out storage code is "107001". There is no change for the previously issued book-entry treasury bonds. Shanghai Stock Exchange April 7, 2009

SSE Asks Members to Do a Good Job in T-bond Category Management
08 Apr 2009
Yesterday, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) issued to its member units and fixed income platform traders the "Notice of Relevant Issues of Category Management of Book-entry Treasury Bonds". The notice said that according to relevant document of the Ministry of Finance, the book-entry treasury bonds have been classified into two categories, namely, the book-entry discount treasury bonds and the book-entry coupon treasury bonds. All member units are required to do a good job in category management of treasury bonds in the light of the document. According to the notice, a book-entry discount treasury bond is issued by the Ministry of Finance at a discount price lower than its face value, with the term of less than one year (excluding one year). Its principal will be repaid at the face value at maturity. A book-entry coupon treasury bond is issued by the Ministry of Finance, with regular payment of interest and the term of more than one year (including one year). Its principal will be repaid and its interest will be paid at maturity. The issue numbers of these two bonds will be in their respective orders. According to arrangements, the code for a book-entry coupon treasury bond to list and trade on the SSE is "019×××". The 4th digit stands for the issuance year, and the 5th and 6th digits for issue number. The corresponding in-and-out storage code of the bond is "090×××". The code for a book-entry discount treasury bond to list and trade on the SSE is "020×××" in sequence. The corresponding in-and-out storage code of the bond is "107×××". In addition, there is no change for the previously issued book-entry treasury bonds.

Geng: Market Stability, the Primary Mission in 2009
07 Apr 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently held its annual event of 2009 Press Publicity Symposium in the sixth consecutive year. SSE Governor Geng Liang and President Zhang Yujun attended the meeting and introduced the SSE's major work in 2009. Fifteen leading media, including the Shanghai Securities News, took part in the symposium and joined in the positive and in-depth discussion on the stability and development of the SSE market. Geng stressed at the meeting that the primary mission of the SSE this year is to maintain stability in market development. Geng said that the SSE has been keeping a good working relationship with the press media, and it thanks the media for their contribution to the development of China's securities market. According to Geng, China's economy and capital market will face both opportunities and challenges in 2009. We should strengthen our confidence in the face of challenges, maintain stability to overcome difficulties, and strive to do a better job by making greater efforts in the building of Shanghai into an international financial center as well as the development of national economy and China's capital market. Geng concluded that confidence comes from the following aspects. First, our national economy as a whole still keeps a good momentum. Second, the basis of China's capital market is healthy, benefiting from a series of reforms on the securities market started a few years ago, including the equity division reform and the unremitting efforts in comprehensive governance of securities companies and improvement of the level of corporate governance of listed companies. Third, the confidence comes from the macroeconomic policies from the government on bolstering growth and expanding domestic demand as well as the continuous efforts by regulatory bodies on supporting the development of the securities market. Fourth, from the increasing trading volume, the investors' confidence on China's capital market is on rise. Geng also emphasized that the primary task this year for the SSE is to maintain stable development of the market. First, we should ensure trading security and smooth operation of the market. Second, we must unswervingly push forward the construction of blue chip market. This year, the SSE will actively take measures to support the merger and reorganization of listed companies for improvement and optimization. Third, the SSE should overcome the difficulties to further perfect the market trading mechanism with the focus on the block trading market by introducing an information platform for it. Fourth, in terms of product innovation, the SSE will further the development of ETF, develop and introduce the SHSE-SZSE300 Index ETF in due time. Fifth, more efforts should be made to enhance the construction of the bond market by taking advantage of the return of listed commercial banks to the exchange's bond market.

Listed Companies to Disclose 1st Quarter Report Next Month
31 Mar 2009
Listed companies are required to disclose their 1st quarter reports of 2009 before April 30, 2009, according to a notice concerning quarterly report published by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) on March 30, 2009. The SSE will allow a daily maximum of 90 listed companies to disclose their quarterly reports according to the principle of balanced disclosure. Any listed company failing to disclose its report before April 30, 2009 should submit in time a written explanation to the SSE and announce the reason and deadline of the postponed disclosure. Meanwhile, the SSE will suspend trading of its stocks and derivatives, and publicly criticize the company and the personnel concerned. ST Xinjiang Baihuacun Co., Ltd. will be the first to disclose the 1st quarter report on April 8, according to the schedule for disclosure of the 1st quarter reports of 2009 announced by the SSE. According to the notice, the financial accounting reports in the quarterly reports may be free from auditing, excluding some otherwise stipulated by the CSRC and the SSE. In addition, if a listed company's certified public accountant issues non-standard unqualified opinion on the financial accounting report in the company's annual report of 2008 and the issues involved in the opinion have not been handled, the progress of those issues in the 1st quarter of 2009 should be specified in the quarterly report. If the quarterly financial report has been audited and the accounting firm has issued non-standard unqualified opinion (including qualified opinions, disclaimer of opinion, adverse opinions and audit opinions with stressed issues), the listed company should submit relevant documents to the SSE in accordance with the stipulations in the Listing Rules, and disclose the explanation by its board of directors on the auditor's opinion. The notice requires that a company, which has completed the equity division reform, should disclose in detail the special promises made by holders of original non-floating shares and their fulfillment in the course of the equity division reform. If relevant shareholders offer measures to stabilize the stock price, relevant implementation for the measures should be disclosed. The notice reiterates that a listed company's directors, supervisors, senior management and other secrecy-bound personnel should fulfill the secret-keeping obligations during the compilation of the quarterly report, and they should not divulge the quarterly report in any ways before the disclosure. The SSE will impose after-action check on the quarterly reports. After receiving the examination opinions from the SSE, the companies are supposed to provide written explanations on the issues involved in a timely manner. If necessary, they should also publish relevant supplementary or modification announcements in the designated newspapers and on the website of the SSE.

Notice of Doing a Good Job in Disclosing Listed Companies' 1st Quarter Reports of 2009
31 Mar 2009
All listed companies, To do a good job in disclosing listed companies' 1st quarter reports of 2009 (the quarterly reports), in accordance with relevant regulations including the "Rule No.13 on Report Composition of Information Disclosure of Companies with Securities Issued Publicly -- 'Special Regulation on Content and Format of Quarterly Report'" (Amendment in 2007) of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and the "SSE Stock Listing Rules" (hereinafter referred to as the "Listing Rules"), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby notifies as follows: 1. A listed company's board of directors should organize relevant personnel to carefully study various regulations of the CSRC and the SSE concerning the compilation, submitting and disclosure of quarterly reports and fulfill the disclosure obligation of the quarterly report in accordance with the requirements. 2. Any company listed on the SSE before March 31, 2009 should complete the disclosure before April 30, 2009. Any listed company failing to do so should submit in time a written explanation to the SSE and announce the reason and deadline of the postponed disclosure in the designated newspapers and on the website of the SSE. The SSE will suspend trading of its stock and derivatives according to the "Listing Rules, and publicly criticize the company and the personnel concerned. 3. The texts of the quarterly reports should be published in the designated newspapers, with the full texts published on the SSE website (www.sse.com.cn) as well. 4. According to the requirements of balanced disclosure, the SSE will, in principle, allow a daily maximum of 90 listed companies to disclose their quarterly reports. A listed company should reach an agreement in advance on the timetable of the quarter report disclosure with the SSE, and disclose its report as scheduled. If it would like to change its disclosure timetable, it should submit a written application to the SSE five trading days in advance, stating the reason and confirming the changed disclosure timetable. The SSE will decide whether to accept the application or not as the case may be. In principle, only one application for change will be accepted. 5. The financial accounting reports in the quarterly reports may be free from auditing, excluding some otherwise stipulated by the CSRC and the SSE. 6. If a listed company's certified public accountant issues non-standard unqualified opinion on the financial accounting report in the company's annual report of 2008 and the issues involved in the opinion have not been handled, the progress of those issues in the 1st quarter of 2009 should be specified in the full text of the quarterly report and in the text 3.2 "Progress in Significant Issues". If the quarterly financial report has been audited and the accounting firm has issued non-standard unqualified opinion (including qualified opinions, disclaimer of opinion, adverse opinions and audit opinions with stressed issues), the listed company should submit relevant documents to the SSE in accordance with the stipulations in the Chapter 6 of the "Listing Rules". The explanation of its board of directors on the opinion should be disclosed in the full text of the quarterly report and in the text 3.2 "Progress in Significant Issues". 7. If a listed company's major accounting data and financial indicators during the reporting period fluctuate by more than 30% compared with those at the end of last year or in the same period of the year before, the situation and main reasons should be illuminated in the text 3.1 of the quarterly reports. 8. A listed company with equity division reform completed should disclose in detail the special promises made by original holders of non-floating shares in the reform and their fulfillment in the "3.3 Fulfillment of Promises Made by the Company, Its Shareholders and Actual Controller" in the quarterly report. There is no need to make remarks on the special promises that have been fulfilled before the last periodical report and previously disclosed in detail in the periodical report. If relevant shareholders have provided measures to stabilize the stock price, relevant implementation should be disclosed in the same part. 9. If the listed company needs to make retroactive adjustments to its financial data of the previous reporting period in the quarterly report for modifying major accounting errors, it should disclose in the form of temporary announcements before or on the disclosure date of the quarterly report according to the CSRC's "Rules No.19 on Report Composition of Information Disclosure of Companies with Securities Issued Publicly -- Modification and Relevant Disclosure on Financial Information". 10. Within 2 trading days after the quarterly report is discussed and approved by the directorate meeting, a listed company should submit the following documents to the SSE by a special person, or through fax, or on the SSE website (i.e., the "Uploading E-Documents" Column in the Section of Listed Companies): 1) The full text and the text (one copy for each) of the quarterly report, which are signed by the legal person and sealed by the company; 2) The 1st quarter financial accounting report of 2009 (one copy) signed and sealed by the legal person, the person in charge of accounting, the general accountant (if any), and the person in charge of accounting institution (the accounting director); 3) The written confirmation of the 1st quarter report of 2009 signed by directors and the senior management; 4) The resolutions of the quarterly report discussed and approved by the directorate meeting; 5) A written verification of the 1st quarter report of 2009 put forward by the board of supervisors meeting in the form of its resolution; 6) The application form for disclosure of the quarterly report (downloadable from the SSE website), ready-to-disclose temporary announcements (if the resolution of the directorate meeting contain only the approval of the quarterly report or the resolution of board of supervisors meeting contain only the written verification, the disclosure of those resolutions can be exempted), and the application form for disclosure of relevant announcements (one copy for each); 7) The online e-documents of the quarterly report; the e-documents can be submitted to the SSE through the "Uploading E-Documents" Column in the Section of Listed Companies on the SSE website, or by sending e-mails to list@sse.com.cn. Please confirm in time with the SSE (special phone number for online disclosure: 021-68812036); 8) Other documents required by the SSE. 11. A listed company should submit the aforesaid documents prior to 3:30 pm of the trading day before the disclosure of its quarterly report, and it should not contact the designated newspapers for publishing the quarterly report until the SSE completes the relevant registration procedures and the day's trading is closed. 12. A listed company failing to assign a special person to submit the quarterly report should post in time the original document to the SSE after the quarterly report disclosure. 13. A listed company's directors, supervisors, senior management and other secrecy-bound personnel should fulfill the secret-keeping obligations during the compilation of the quarterly report, and they should not divulge the quarterly report in any ways before the disclosure. 14. A listed company should pay close attention to the latest notices and other relevant documents under the "Section of Listed Companies" on the SSE website during the quarterly report's compilation and disclosure. 15. The SSE will implement after-action check towards the quarterly reports disclosed by the listed companies. After receiving the examination opinion of the SSE, each company is supposed to provide in time a written explanation on the relevant contents according to the requirements. If necessary, it should publish relevant supplementary announcement or modification announcement in the designated newspapers and on the SSE website. Shanghai Stock Exchange March 27, 2009

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2009 Tomb Sweeping Day
30 Mar 2009
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the 2009 Tomb Sweeping Day according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2009" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2008] No.22). The SSE will close from April 4 (Saturday) to April 6, 2009 (Monday) and open for trading on April 7, 2008 (Tuesday). Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice.

Build a Better Blue-chip Market for Shanghai International Financial Center
27 Mar 2009
Efforts should be made to boost the development of Shanghai's modern service and advanced manufacturing industries, and accelerate the construction of an international financial center and an international shipping center in Shanghai. This proposal was examined and approved in principle by the executive meeting of the State Council on March 25. All staff of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) was inspired by the news after its announcement. In no time, officials of the SSE Party Committee and the General Manager's Office organized and carried out a special study. According to an SSE official, the requirement of building Shanghai into an international financial center as a national strategy is now clear as it was finally put into a national paper. From the histories of the world's leading international financial centers, we can find that capital market plays a very important role in the beginning, development and formation of an international financial center. A successful international financial center is, first of all, an international capital market, which boasts a world-class stock exchange, pools the world's top financial institutions and intermediary service institutions of different types and functions, and offering constantly innovative financial products to attract institutional investors on a global scale. The official also pointed out that the all-round development of the SSE in the recent years has improved the structure of Shanghai's financial system and impelled the development of various financial institutions. It is obvious that the SSE has been playing an increasingly prominent role in leading the construction of Shanghai's international financial center. In the next stage, the SSE will seize every opportunity in building of the financial center to make development and innovation to its products, systems, technologies and infrastructures. In light of the deployment of the China Securities Regulatory Commission and the priorities of its annual work, the SSE will (1) pay close attention to safe operation for a smooth launch of the new generation trading system; (2) further develop its blue-chip market and promote the merger, acquisition and reorganization of the listed companies; (3) promote bond market development and introduce products that meet the needs of market participants; (4) vigorously propel the development of the block trading market; (5) further promote product innovation, including the development of SHSE-SZSE 300ETF; and (6) deepen market supervision to stick up for "equality, fairness and openness" of the market. The SSE will endeavor to make breakthroughs in terms of product innovation, talent recruitment and market internationalization to optimize itself on the current basis. It will contribute to the building of Shanghai into an international financial center by playing its significant role.

Notice of Issuance, Listing of 2009 Municipal Bonds
26 Mar 2009
All member units, To prepare for the issuance and listing of the 2009 municipal bonds for its successful launch, in line with the requirements of the "Notice of Doing a Good Job in Relevant Work of Issuing 2009 Municipal Bonds" (Cai Ban Ku [2009] No.36) of the Ministry of Finance and relevant regulations of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), the SSE hereby notifies relevant issues on the issuance and listing of the 2009 municipal bonds as follows: 1. The issuance of the 2009 municipal bonds will be in line with the current issuance method of the book-entry treasury bonds, i.e. to be distributed through on-floor listing and off-floor signing of distribution contracts. Distribution through listing refers to the listing and sales of bonds on the SSE's trading market by underwriters, and all member units will subscribe through trading seats for proprietary business or as agent of investors. Distribution through agreements refers to the subscription through the signing of distribution agreements between underwriters and other institutions or individual investors. 2. In the issuance of the 2009 municipal bonds, underwriters shall, at their own discretion, decide the distribution prices according to the market situation, and members of the underwriting group shall not distribute among themselves. 3. For proprietary subscription, member units shall use their proprietary stock account; for commission subscription, they shall use the clients' securities accounts. The MOF requires that member units should not subscribe by opening "secondary securities accounts" for investors or other ways. 4. The code range of the underwriter's application for distribution and subscription of the 2009 municipal bonds is between 751900 and 751979, and the application is counted by lots (1 lot equals to the face value of RMB1,000). 5. The commissioning and transaction of the 2009 municipal bonds to be subscribed through listing distribution shall be in line with the SSE's business rules, and relevant settlement shall be handled according to the business rules of SD&C. No commission charge is needed for investors of the 2009 municipal bonds, and the commission charge accrued from member units' subscription shall be paid by listing underwriters according to the agreed proportion. 6. For underwriters that distribute bonds by signing agreements, they shall submit the distribution applications to the exchange before the distribution completes so that the exchange can handle the registration of the creditor's rights in time. The exchange will transfer the creditor's rights conclusively to the distribution securities accounts after the distribution completes. 7. Repo of the 2009 municipal bonds is not allowed during the distribution period. 8. The 2009 municipal bonds will be simultaneously listed with the same code on the SSE's comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities and the auction trading system. The transaction methods include spot trading and collateralized repo. The code segment for bond spot trading is "130***" and the in-and-out storage code segment for repo is "106***" (with the last 3 digits corresponding to the counterparts of the spot trading). The bond spot trading and repo will be handled through securities accounts, with the charging standard same as that of the treasury bonds. Shanghai Stock Exchange March 25, 2009

SSE Deploys Issuance, Listing of Municipal Bonds
26 Mar 2009
The State Council has recently approved the issuance of RMB200 billion bonds by local governments, and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) will serve as the issuance agent. In its "Notice of Issuance, Listing of 2009 Municipal Bonds" to the member units on March 24 as a supportive measure for the successful launch of the 2009 municipal bonds, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) required the members to do a good job in the issuance and listing of municipal bonds according to the requirements of the Notice. The issuance of the 2009 municipal bonds, approved by the State Council, is the issuance of the floating book-entry bonds in 2009, with provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the Central Government and cities specifically designated in the state plan as the issuance and repayment subjects, and with the MOF as the agent for issuance, repayment of principal and interest as well as payment of issuance fees. The municipal bonds will be titled with the names of the local governments as the issuers, with a term of 3 years. The interest will be paid yearly, with the interest rate to be decided by market bidding. The issuance objects are various investors (including individual investors) who open bond accounts at China Government Securities Depository Trust & Clearing Co. Ltd. and those who open stock and fund accounts at China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. (SD&C). According to the SSE's Notice, the issuance of the 2009 municipal bonds will be in line with the current issuance method of the book-entry treasury bonds, i.e. to be distributed through on-floor listing and off-floor signing of distribution contracts. Distribution through listing refers to the listing and sales of bonds on the SSE's trading market by underwriters, and all member units will subscribe through trading seats for proprietary business or as agent of investors. Distribution through agreements refers to the subscription through the signing of distribution agreements between underwriters and other institutions or individual investors. Besides, underwriters shall, at their own discretion, decide the distribution prices according to the market situation, and members of the underwriting group shall not distribute among themselves. The Notice prescribes that, for proprietary subscription, member units shall use their proprietary stock account; for commission subscription, they shall use the clients' securities accounts. The MOF requires that member units should not subscribe by opening "secondary securities accounts" for investors or other ways. The code range of the underwriter's application for distribution and subscription of the 2009 municipal bonds is between 751900 and 751979, and the application is counted by lots (1 lot equals to the face value of RMB1,000). According to the Notice, the commissioning and transaction of the 2009 municipal bonds to be subscribed through listing distribution shall be in line with the SSE's business rules, and relevant settlement shall be handled according to the business rules of SD&C. No commission charge is needed for investors of the 2009 municipal bonds, and the commission charge accrued from member units' subscription shall be paid by listing underwriters according to the agreed proportion. For underwriters that distribute bonds by signing agreements, they shall submit the distribution applications to the exchange before the distribution completes so that the exchange can handle the registration of the creditor's rights in time. The exchange will transfer the creditor's rights conclusively to the distribution securities accounts after the distribution completes. The Notice also mentioned that the 2009 municipal bonds will be simultaneously listed with the same code on the SSE's comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities and the auction trading system. The transaction methods include spot trading and collateralized repo which is, however, not allowed during the distribution period. The code segment for bond spot trading is "130***" and the in-and-out storage code segment for repo is "106***" (with the last 3 digits corresponding to the counterparts of the spot trading). The bond spot trading and repo will be handled through securities accounts, with the charging standard same as that of the treasury bonds.

New Investment Target: 3 Central State-owned Enterprises Indices Launched Soon
16 Mar 2009
China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) has recently announced that the Shanghai Stock Exchange Central State-owned Enterprises 50 Index (SSE Central SOEs 50, with the code of 000042), the CSI Central State-owned Enterprises Composite Index (CSI Central SOEs, with the code of 000926 and 399926) and the CSI Central State-owned Enterprises 100 Index (CSI Central SOEs 100, with the code of 000927 and 399927) will be launched on March 30, 2009, with the base day of December 31, 2008 and the base point of 1,000. Listed companies controlled by the central state-owned enterprises, the backbone of China's economy and also the core force for the sound and stable development of the securities market, boast a major asset scale and influence. Consisting of listed companies with the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council as the actual controller and those under the Ministry of Finance, they are covering such pillar industries as war, aeronautics, telecommunication, airport, energy, transportation and finance, which influence the interests of the state and the livelihood of the people. The three central state-owned enterprises indices introduced by the SSE and the CSI are the SSE Central SOEs 50 Index, the CSI Central SOEs Index and the CSI Central SOEs 100 Index. The constituents of the CSI Central SOEs Index are made up of all listed companies controlled by the central state-owned enterprises, representing the overall performance of such companies listed on the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE); the SSE Central SOEs 50 Index and the CSI Central SOEs 100 Index are constituent indices, covering the listed companies controlled by the central state-owned enterprises with certain scale and liquidity which are listed on the SSE and those which are listed on both the SSE and the SZSE, further representing the overall performance of such large-scale companies' stocks and providing fundamental tools for the development of relevant index investment products. According to the latest data, there are in total over 260 stocks of the listed companies controlled by the central state-owned enterprises on the SSE and the SZSE, whose market capitalization reach over RMB7,800 billion, or 56% of the A shares' total on the SSE and the SZSE, and the negotiable market capitalization nearly 36%; the dividend payment of 2008 has accumulated to RMB260 billion, accounting for 77% of the listed companies' total dividend payment on the SSE and the SZSE. Among them, there are over 160 stocks of the listed companies controlled by the central state-owned enterprises on the SSE, with the market capitalization accounting for 59% of the A shares' total on the SSE, and the negotiable market capitalization 33%. By the close of March 13, 2009, the SSE Central SOEs 50 Index was at 1,142 points, up 14% from the base day; the CSI Central SOEs Index was at 1,178 points, up 18% from the base day; the CSI Central SOEs 100 Index was at 1,165 points, up 17% from the base day.

SSE Upgrades Investor Education by "Six Ones"
16 Mar 2009
"The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will upgrade its investor education on the basis of "Six Ones" to continuously protect the rights and interests of investors as well as foster rational, mature and qualified investors," said SSE President Zhang Yujun at the recent awarding ceremony for soliciting articles of "March 15, Investor and Me" and also investor education symposium held by the SSE. Apart from wrapping up the "March 15, Investor and Me" article solicitation event, the symposium on the International Day for Protecting Consumers' Rights provided all industry units with an opportunity to exchange ideas for creating the synergy in conducting education, services, supervision and protection for investors. Attending the symposium were SSE Secretary Wan Dujuan of the Discipline Inspection Committee, relevant officials from the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the Securities Association of China and China Securities Investor Protection Fund Corporation Limited as well as representatives from nearly 20 securities companies. According to Zhang, the SSE will continue to, by implementing the disposition and requirements of the CSRC, upgrade its investor education this year and better serve the small and medium investors on the basis of "Six Ones", so as to protect the rights and interests of investors as well as foster rational, mature and qualified investors. The "Six Ones" refers to one well-known and influential website of investor education, one simulated securities trading platform for investors, one investor education course with a wide coverage, one set of series books of investor education with authoritative and lively contents, one team of qualified investors and one set of rules and systems related with investor education. It is learned that the SSE made efforts in the following areas last year regarding the investor education: firstly, it established the guideline of "combining investor education with investor protection, and integrating investor supervision with investor services to foster a qualified investor team"; secondly, it established the Investor Education Department; thirdly, it conducted an investigation on the current situation of investors to enhance the pertinence of investor education; fourthly, it continued to conduct basic investor education by such ways as website and columns; fifthly, it urged members to assign liaisons for investor education and report related work so as to achieve effective implementation; sixthly, it promoted the construction of a qualified investor team by mobilizing 304 members, insurance companies, trust and investment companies, finance companies and other inter-bank market participants as well as QFIIs to become qualified investors, and mapped out a plan of introducing qualified investors; seventhly, it launched the "SSE Code of Conduct for Individual Investors". According to Zhang, all member units, the backbone for frontline investor education, should improve their work through the following ways: firstly, to lay emphasis on the investor education from the perspective of benefiting the long-term development and promoting the core competitiveness; secondly, to implement the investor education on the basis of classified client management; thirdly, to integrate investor education with investor services by providing quality client services during each transaction link; fourthly, to do a good job of investor education in product development, design and sale by stressing the principle of "right product for right investor"; fifthly, to carry out the basic investor education in various lively ways; sixthly, to ensure the smooth market operation by properly handling the complaints, letters and visits of investors; seventhly, to improve the risk management level of member units and the calibers of staff while sticking to investor education.

Announcement on Launching SSE Central SOEs 50 Index
16 Mar 2009
To reflect the overall performance of the SSE-listed companies controlled by the central state-owned enterprises and to provide the investors with investment target, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. will launch the SSE Central State-owned Enterprises 50 Index on March 30, 2009 in due form, with the base day of December 31, 2008 and the base point of 1,000. Attached is the compilation plan. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. March 16, 2009

Geng: SSE to Build a Block Trading Information System
09 Mar 2009
In an interview regarding the market's hot issues on March 7, the National Committee Member of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference and also Governor of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) Geng Liang said the SSE is confident and determined to promote the construction of the capital market in a standard and stable manner. This year, the SSE will further develop the blue-chip market, work on the establishment of the block trading information platform, propel the growth of the exchange's bond market as well as conduct R & D and product innovation of ETF at a deeper level and in a broader scope. Develop Blue-chip Market, Promote Merger, Acquisition & Reorganization According to Geng, only 8 companies' market capitalization on the SSE had exceeded RMB10 billion at the beginning of its establishment, and now the number is 131, among which 1 company's market capitalization has exceeded RMB1 trillion, 15 companies have their market capitalization between RMB100 billion and RMB1 trillion, while 115 companies between RMB10 billion and RMB100 billion. In 2007, the SSE ranked No.6 in market capitalization, No.7 in trading volume and No.2 in raised capital amount among the world's major exchanges, and in 2008, its rankings were No.6, No.7 and No.8 in the aforesaid indicators. The RMB223.8 billion raised capital, which saw a drop last year, still made the second best record since its establishment. Geng said that the framework of the SSE's blue-chip market has been confirmed, and it will stick to the goal of developing blue-chip market this year, with the following tasks to be done: Firstly, to ensure trading safety and provide an effective, open and fair trading platform; secondly, to further develop the SSE's blue-chip market, with emphasis on promoting the to-be-listed companies' growth by merger and reorganization. According to Geng, the SSE has organized 9 teams to visit 53 listed companies in 18 provinces which have reorganization and merger intentions to conduct research and provide services since the fourth quarter of last year. Moreover, the SSE has specially established the Issuance and Listing Department and the Beijing Center for enhancing the merger and reorganization of to-be-listed companies. Geng said that, if necessary, the SSE will engage professional institutions to assist the listed companies with reorganization and merger intentions in researching and formulating plans. To Establish a Block Trading Information Platform According to Geng, the block trading market, though established for over 5 years, has been brought into full play in 2008 thanks to the policy of encouraging the shareholding lessening of big/small non-tradable stocks on the block trading market issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and the investors' growing recognition of the advantages of the block trading after several years' practice. Geng said that the block trading volume in 2008 has seen a year-on-year increase of tenfold while the transaction number has seen a year-on-year increase of twelvefold. Geng described the launch of the block trading as an important reform of the SSE's trading methods, which still has great potential for development. The difficulty facing block trading is to find "counterpart", so the SSE is preparing to establish a block trading information platform to provide information for trading counterparts, and to further develop special floor business of the block trading. To Launch SHSE-SZSE300 ETF Products Geng stressed that stability will be maintained in pushing product innovation under the global financial crisis, and "product innovation and development will be in light of the market acceptance level". The products to be introduced by the SSE this year will be featured by "simple transaction, low cost and comprehensibility". Geng said that the SSE will conduct research and product innovation in the depth and width of ETF products this year. Currently, it is working on the launch of SHSE-SZSE300 ETF products to pave the way for hedging and arbitrage trading by investors after the launch of stock index futures. Besides, it also plans to develop such products as sector ETF and bond ETF. To Modify Trading Rules of Bond Market Geng said that the development of the SSE's bond market is relatively slow, with the amount of bonds under custody on the exchange's bond market over RMB300 billion and the daily average trading volume at RMB12.1 billion, among which the spot trading volume is RMB2 billion and the repo trading volume RMB10 billion. In January 2009, the CSRC and the China Banking Regulatory Commission jointly published relevant notice of listed commercial banks' return to the bond market of exchanges. "We fully support and welcome listed commercial banks to trade on the exchange's bond market," said Geng, "it was one of our priorities to develop the bond market this year." Geng introduced the efforts made by the SSE regarding the aforesaid issue: firstly, to provide on-site services for 14 listed commercial banks one by one, assisting them to better understand the trading rules of the exchange's bond market; secondly, to modify the existing bond trading rules so that they are simpler and more adaptable to the trading practices of commercial banks; thirdly, to fully check the fixed income platform, ensuring the trading safety after commercial banks' return to the exchange's bond market. Meanwhile, the SSE is actively promoting the back-end construction to gradually create the unified and interconnected information of related markets. Regarding the integration of the depository and clearing back-end of the exchange's bond market and that of the inter-banking bond market, Geng expected the back-end of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited and that of China Government Securities Depository Trust & Clearing Co., Ltd. should be gradually integrated, the trusteeship transfer be accelerated and T+0 or T+1 be realized. "The task has been under way for years, and my proposal this year is to gradually formulate a unified and interconnected bond market by further accelerating the bond market's development and strengthening the connection between the two platforms", said Geng. Confidence in a Sound and Stable Capital Market Geng said the SSE is confident and determined to promote the construction of the capital market in a standard and stable manner despite of the changing economic situations both at home and abroad. The reasons are as follows: Firstly, the fundamentals and long-term positive trend of China's economy remain the same, which is the basis and confidence source of the stable development of the capital market. Secondly, China's capital market is generally in sound condition, which has a more solid basis after the equity division reform, the clearing and rectification of securities companies, the debt clearing of listed companies' major shareholders and other important reforms in recent years. The equity division reform solved the bottleneck problems affecting the sound and stable development of the capital market; the clearing and rectification of securities companies, with 33 unqualified securities dealers banned from the market, removed the industry risks; the debt clearing of listed companies' major shareholders led to a total of RMB49.5 billion capital returned by SSE-listed companies, who have become more capable of overcoming difficulties. Thirdly, the CPC Central Committee and the State Council have formulated the general guideline of maintaining growth, expanding domestic demand and adjusting structure to promote the steady economic growth since last year. Concerning the specific issues in the capital market, the CSRC has also introduced a series of measures such as encouraging the shareholding lessening of big/small non-tradable stocks through the block trading platform, the repo of listed companies and the shareholding increase of listed companies' major shareholders. All these policies and measures have been brought into full play. Fourthly, investors still have great passion in the capital market. According to Geng, the daily trading volume of the SSE of last year reached RMB73.3 billion in spite of the great adjustments in the two exchanges in Shanghai and Shenzhen. By March 3, 2009, the SSE had seen a daily trading volume of RMB101.9 billion, up 39% than that of last year.

Announcement on Adjusting Constituent of SSE Corporate Governance Sector
18 Feb 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. have decided upon research that Chongqing Road & Bridge Co., Ltd. (Road & Bridge, with the stock code of 600106) shall be deleted from the SSE Corporate Governance Sector from February 18, with corresponding adjustment to the SSE Corporate Governance Index. According to the regulations of the "Appraisal Measures of SSE Corporate Governance Sector", Road & Bridge has failed to meet the application qualification of the SSE Corporate Governance Sector since its controlling shareholders, Chongqing International Trust Co., Ltd. and Chongqing Guoxin Investment Holding Co., Ltd., were publicly penalized for illegal trading by the SSE on February 16, 2009. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. February 18, 2009

Notice of Issues Concerning Implementation of "Measures on Administration of Listed Companies' Acquisition" and Other Rules
02 Feb 2009
All listed companies and relevant shareholders, To further regulate the purchase and sale of listed companies' stocks by investors, especially the trading by shareholders of stock shares with sales limit, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby notifies the issues concerning the implementation of the "Securities Law", the "Measures on Administration of Listed Companies' Acquisition", the "SSE Stock Listing Rules" and other regulations. 1. The purchase and sale of listed companies' stocks by investors and their concerted actors through the SSE's auction trading system or block trading system falls into the "securities trading through stock exchanges" prescribed in the "Measures on Administration of Listed Companies' Acquisition". 2. If the increase or decrease of a listed company's stocks by investors and their concerted actors through the aforesaid ways reaches the proportion prescribed in Article 13 of the "Measures on Administration of Listed Companies' Acquisition", they shall perform the reporting and announcement duties according to the Measures and shall not purchase or sell the stocks of the company within the prescribed time limit. 3. If the change of equities held by investors and their concerted actors has not reached the prescribed proportion but caused their equities below 5% of the listed company's issued stocks, the listed company shall disclose a special notice within 3 trading days since the occurrence. The content of a special notice shall include but not limited to: the shareholder's name; the nature and amount of the stocks as well as its proportion in the listed company's issued shares; the amount, proportion, date and method of this shareholding change. 4. The shareholders of stocks with sales limit shall, when entrusting the listed company's directorate with submission of the application for sales limit termination to the SSE, simultaneously submit the commitment documents specifying its learning and strict conformity of the "Securities Law", the "Measures on Administration of Listed Companies' Acquisition" and the SSE's relevant business rules. 5. For investors in breach of this Notice or the SSE's relevant rules, the SSE will take corresponding supervisory measures or impose disciplinary punishment according to the "SSE Stock Listing Rules", the "SSE Trading Rules" and the "SSE Guidance for Real-time Supervision on Abnormal Securities Trading". Shanghai Stock Exchange January 23, 2009

SSE Nails Down Six Major Tasks in 2009: Stability, the Top Priority
22 Jan 2009
"Maintaining stability and promoting growth" will be the working philosophy of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) in 2009. On this basis, it will endeavor to greatly enhance the efficiency of block trading and strive to launch the products of SHSE-SZSE 300ETF and REITs within the year. Meanwhile, it plans to introduce the margin trading and securities lending as soon as possible, in accordance with the unified arrangement of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) of preparing to do a good job in the pilot work for the product. In addition, the SSE will further promote building of the blue-chip market, impel innovation on the bond market and explore the establishment of the on-floor market based on qualified investors. SSE President Zhang Yujun released yesterday the guiding principles and strategic planning for its work in 2009 at the "Signing Ceremony of Closer Cooperation between HKEx, SSE and also Working Strategy Conference in 2009". He said that the SSE faces in 2009 an once-in-a-lifetime strategic opportunity for its development. The policies and measures advocated by the central government, including "maintaining growth, expanding domestic demand and adjusting structure", will provide strong support for the development of the SSE market. It will speed up building of the blue-chip market to meet the strategic readjustment of the national economy and industrial upgrading. The promulgation of the "30 Financial Clauses" will greatly facilitate the development of the SSE bond market. Opportunities are many for the SSE to build and innovate products, systems, technology and infrastructure under the global financial crisis. The SSE has full confidence in maintaining healthy and stable operation of the market and visions a long-term, stable and healthy development of the capital market. "Maintaining stability and promoting growth will be the major focus of the exchange in 2009." Zhang explained, "The work in the whole year can be divided into 9 aspects, namely, maintaining safe and stable operation, promoting the building of blue-chip market, developing the bond market, reinforcing market regulation, strengthening investor education, promoting market innovation, improving internal management, accelerating infrastructure construction and enhancing discipline inspection in party construction. Six priorities are as follows: The top priority is to ensure the safe and stable operation of the market. In Zhang's point of view, though it will be tougher to maintain market safety and stability this year than last year, the SSE is resolved to take various effective measures to ensure the aim. First of all, it will further upgrade the operation level of the existing trading, communication and information systems, and publish in due time the detailed rules on emergency handling during abnormal trading to perfect and build a timely and effective emergency mechanism that can handle special occasions before, when or after they occur. Secondly, the new generation trading system, prepared by the SSE for quite a few years, will finally be on line this year. The SSE will make ready by all means for the launch of the new system in terms of technology, operation, organization and coordination to guarantee the smooth and safe switch from the old one. With the new generation system, the SSE will reconstruct the technology architecture and operational support structure to improve the overall level of safe operation and management as well as the capacity to deal with emergency cases. In addition, the SSE needs to constantly reinforce the letters and visits as well as security work on the office site to maintain stability. The second is to vigorously promote the construction of blue-chip market, make full use of the capital market to allocate resources, practice the "30 Financial Clauses" of the State Council and meet the overall deployment of the industrial upgrading and the strategic adjustment of the national economy. Zhang pointed out that the SSE needs to further deepen the restructuring services in construction of the blue chip market. It is learned that the SSE has recently set up the Issuance and Listing Department, one major task of which is to impel listed companies' industrial integration and upgrading by promoting their merger and reorganization and providing professional consultation and on-site services for those with the intentions. The SSE will further deepen cooperation with local governments, industry authorities and intermediaries to tap high-quality listing resources and optimize the work of issuance and listing. Zhang also stated that the SSE will introduce in 2009 the corporate social responsibility index and the social responsibility rating system for the listed companies to perfect the corporate governance index and raise the level of corporate governance. Thirdly, enormous efforts should be made to develop the bond market for serving the construction of national economy. The SSE will spare no efforts to promote its bond market and further optimize the investment and financing structure in such aspects as technology systems, product development, market promotion and risk control. According to Zhang, as the CSRC and the China Banking Regulatory Commission has just allowed the listed commercial banks to participate in the pilot bond trading on the stock exchanges, the SSE will seize the favorable opportunity to improve the relevant systems and services of its bond market to attract more investors. Next, it will expand the scale of bond issuance, bolster the listing of bonds related to infrastructure, livelihood projects and post-disaster reconstruction, and steadily enlarge the size of trading and custody. Moreover, the SSE will accelerate the building of the technology systems to optimize the trading and clearing modes for market-oriented development of the bond market. Meanwhile, more innovation will be pumped into the bond market to enrich varieties and satisfy market demand. Besides, the SSE will further improve the bond market rules and regulatory standards, establish and perfect market rules for corporate bonds, and cultivate market credit and rating system. The fourth is to improve the block trading market and pool qualified investors. Zhang said that the SSE will explore an eligible-to-access system for investors to establish an on-floor market based on qualified investors. Besides, with sufficient appraisal on the market pressure brought by the shareholding decrease of non-floating shares as well as the floating shares with sales limit in recent years, the SSE aims to perfect the mechanism and methods for block trading, extend trading hours and lower the subscription threshold for a substantial increase in trading volume on the block trading platform in 2009. Furthermore, it needs to introduce more features of the platform to facilitate the block trading market to effectively serve pricing of the block shares and step up trading efficiency. Fifthly, efforts should be made to increase innovation for sustainable development of the market. Zhang said that the innovation efforts by the SSE in 2009 will continue to focus on the products and trading mechanism. Specifically, it will vigorously develop the ETF market, with an aim to launch the SHSE-SZSE 300ETF as well as the industrial ETF and bond ETF within the year. Next, it will actively introduce other new products, including the REITs scheduled in 2009. Also, modification will be made to the SSE rules on warrant management to standardize and enhance management of the warrant market. Besides, under the unified deployment of the CSRC, the SSE will make full preparation for the pilot work of margin trading and securities lending in rules-making, business process, operational procedures, technology system, day-to-day regulation and other aspects, with an aim to launch the product at an earlier time. The last endeavor is to gradually and orderly release the business functions of the versatile new generation trading system after its launch in light of the market conditions and real demand. Last but not the least, the SSE will continue to strengthen its infrastructure construction to enhance its core competitiveness in an all-round way. In 2009, in addition to bearing in its mind to perfect governance institutions, improve internal control level and stick to the strategy of "talents make the exchange more competitive", the SSE will round off the collection for the international-level scheme and finalize the project designing work for its new office building, speed up the building of the three major bases for technology development, innovation research and education and training, as well as accelerate its pace of internationalization.

SSE, HKEx Closer Cooperation Agreement Inked
22 Jan 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEx) will launch the all-round cooperation in such areas as technology, products, information and personnel. The SSE and the HKEx held yesterday a signing ceremony on closer cooperation, which marks the more intimate collaboration between the two exchanges in technology, products, information and personnel. SSE President Zhang Yujun and HKEx Chief Executive Paul Chow signed respectively on the agreement. Also at the ceremony were Vice Mayor Tu Guangshao of Shanghai Municipality, SSE Governor Geng Liang, HKEx Chairman Ronald Arculli and Director Fang Xinghai of the Financial Services Office of Shanghai Municipal Government. Tu said in his speech that the signing on the agreement by the SSE and the HKEx to work more closely not only gives the recognition to the contribution jointly made by the two exchanges for promoting the securities and financial markets in the past years, but more significantly, develops a broader space for both parties to conduct securities and financial cooperation in the future. He noted that with development of the global economy and financial services, a closer cooperation between the two exchanges will help to deepen the cooperation between the two cities. The HKEx has been playing a central role in Hong Kong, an international financial center. While Shanghai is steadily stepping toward an international financial center, the SSE will also be a major part in the process. At the just-concluded "Two Sessions" in Shanghai, it is proposed to speed up the adjustment to the economic structure and growth pattern of the city. Specifically, it calls for accelerating the development of the service sectors, especially the financial sector to build Shanghai into an international financial center. In such a moment, it is of great significance for Shanghai and Hong Kong to join hands to further deepen cooperation based on the past practice. According to SSE Governor Geng, the ties between the Shanghai and Hong Kong capital markets have been increasingly tightening. As more and more enterprises in Chinese mainland are dual-listed on both markets, the interactive linkage gets stronger. So, the two exchanges need to build more intimate collaboration. In May 2002, the two sides signed a cooperation memorandum of understanding, indicating the start for enhanced cooperation in information exchange, personnel training, high-level visits and product development. In October 2006, the simultaneous listing of A shares and H shares of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China marked a new stage for cooperation between the two sides. Geng said that the HKEx and the SSE are binding together with a mission to better serve the national economy by promoting the development of the two capital markets. A closer cooperation relationship between the two parties, conducive to absorbing complementary advantages and realizing common development, will facilitate the building of Shanghai into an international financial center. HKEx Chairman Ronald Arculli said at the signing ceremony that the HKEx would like to share with the mainland market the experience in implementing the international standards and best practices as well as in doing business with global investors and issuers. He said that through closer cooperation, the rules and operation of the markets and exchanges on both sides will be coordinated. In addition, the two sides will expand cooperation in products, including a variety of securities as well as the derivative products such as A share-based futures and options. At present, the market has become increasingly diversified, which will ultimately benefit a wider range of market participants. The HKEx will learn from the SSE more about the needs of mainland investors, thus propping up the plan of "qualified domestic institutional investors". It is learnt that the agreement signed this time focuses on continued cooperation, especially in three areas including information sharing, product development and personnel training. According to the agreement, in addition to establishment of a system for exchange visits by administrative staff as well as the relevant training program, the two exchanges will hold the management meeting, hosted alternately by the two sides every year. The annual meeting will mainly talk over the issues of mutual concern to nail down the collaborative directions and objectives, discuss the reports and recommendations from the business departments to establish research directions and themes and to confirm the feasibility of the collaborative projects; and finalize the plans and schedules for business exchange and staff training.

SSE Requires Listed Companies' Major Shareholders to Fulfill Information Disclosure Obligations
19 Jan 2009
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently announced three cases of illegal information disclosure and reported the relevant measures regarding the consecutive irregularities in the shareholding increase and decrease by listed companies' major shareholders. According to an SSE official, the irregularities involve, respectively, relevant shareholders of Song Liao Automobile Co., Ltd. (ST Songliao), Guangxi Beisheng Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (ST Beisheng) and S&P Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (S&P Pharmaceutical), who held over 5% shares of the total issued shares in the companies. The reasons of their irregularities were different. In the case of ST Songliao, the relevant shareholder transferred once 10% of the total issued shares through the block trading platform without fulfilling in time the filing, announcement and other relevant obligations. With regard to the case of ST Beisheng, the stock shares with terminated sales limit accumulatively sold by the relevant shareholder within a month through the auction trading system accounted for more than 1% of the total issued shares. As for the case of S&P Pharmaceutical, the relevant shareholder bought within 6 months the same stock in the shareholding lessening process, thus violating the rules for short-term trading. Regarding the violations, the SSE has taken a series of regulatory measures including interviewing with relevant shareholders, requiring them to sign the commitment letters of compliance trading and to take remedy measures within the time limit. In addition to such disciplinary punishment measures to relevant violators as the trading limit to their securities accounts and public criticism, it has reported the relevant cases to the China Securities Regulatory Commission for punishment. The SSE reminded all investors, especially the major shareholders of listed companies, whenever buying or selling shares during the period of shareholding increase or decrease through the SSE's auction trading system or the block trading system, to strictly abide by such threshold requirements as "5%", "1%", "1 month" and "6 months" stipulated in the "Securities Law", the "Measures on Administration of Listed Companies' Acquisition", the "Guidance Opinion on Transfer of Stock Shares with Terminated Sales Limit of Listed Companies" and other laws and regulations. For any illegal activity, the relevant shareholders should take remedy measures in a timely manner after the warning. Meanwhile, the SSE has required that all member units should undertake the responsibilities to supervise over their clients. The listed companies are required to strengthen supervision and regulation over their shareholders' trading, to do a good job in the publicity and education of the above laws and regulations as well as the relevant business rules of the SSE, and to guide and remind the major shareholders to increase and decrease shareholding in a lawful and complied way. For investors who violate relevant regulations, the SSE will implement regulatory measures and disciplinary punishment according to relevant rules. The SSE hopes that all investors contribute to the long-term, sound and stable development of the securities market by strictly conforming to laws, regulations and the SSE's business rules in the securities trading, maintaining the securities market order, fulfilling the information disclosure obligation and cooperating with the listed companies in the information disclosure.

SSE Urges Listed Companies to Improve Internal Control System
13 Jan 2009
Format guideline for internal control reports, compilation guideline for social responsibility reports launched recently To regulate the compilation and examination of the self-evaluation reports on internal control and the reports on the fulfillment of social responsibilities in annual reports by listed companies' directorates, the Listed Company Department of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), after researching with some listed companies, has formulated the format guideline for internal control reports, the compilation guideline for social responsibility reports as well as the working paper for listed companies' directors to examine the internal control reports and the social responsibility reports. Recently, the SSE has already issued the above guidelines and examination working paper to the listed companies in the form of memorandum on annual report. Enterprises may disclose the basic elements of internal control based on actual conditions In the "Notice of Doing a Better Job for Disclosing 2008 Annual Reports", the SSE has prescribed that the 259 SSE-listed companies which are in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector or issue foreign capital stocks listed abroad and the financial companies should disclose the directorates' self-evaluation reports of the internal control and the reports on the fulfillment of social responsibilities together with the annual reports of 2008; other qualified listed companies are encouraged to do so. In line with the above regulation, the memorandum requires that the listed companies to disclose the internal control reports shall compile the reports according to the format guidance; the listed companies to disclose the social responsibility reports shall compile the reports according to the compilation guidance. For a company to disclose the internal control report and the social responsibility report, its directorate shall make resolutions respectively. According to the memorandum, any listed company to disclose the internal control report or the social responsibility report shall submit the corresponding examination working paper to all directors upon the issuance of the notice on the directorate's meeting to examine the annual report at the latest. The directors shall fill in the working paper on their own, which specifies the essential contents to which the directors shall pay attention before the examination as the ground for the examination. The listed companies shall provide convenience for the directors to fill in the working paper and keep the working paper as part of the directorate's meeting minutes according to the regulations. Besides, the listed companies are encouraged to engage auditing institutions for verification and evaluation of their internal control, and to disclose the opinions of the auditing institutions. The SSE's format guidelines for two reports are up to the standard of "concise content, definite responsibilities, clear questions". The format guideline for the "Directorates' Self-evaluation Reports of Internal Control" requires that a listed company should disclose the internal control goal, the inherent limitations and the basic elements to be considered in establishing and implementing the internal control system. The basic elements refer to the eight elements prescribed in the "SSE Guidelines for Internal Control of Listed Companies", namely, goal setting, internal environment, risk identification, risk evaluation, risk management strategy selection, control activities, information communication, inspection and monitoring, or the five elements prescribed in the "Basic Standard for Enterprises' Internal Control" by the Ministry of Finance, i.e., internal environment, risk evaluation, control activities, information communication and internal supervision. Enterprises may disclose the basic elements of their internal control according to the actual conditions. The internal control report shall also specify whether a company has significant deficiencies from January 1 of the current year to the end of the report period. The significant deficiencies refer to the design or execution deficiencies of the internal control that have serious negative influence or potential one on the internal control goal, including but not limited to the significant untruth, inaccuracy or incompleteness of the accounting statements and annotations; under penalty by relevant authorities or regulatory institutions; significant losses due to ineffective internal control; fraud of senior management. In case of these deficiencies, the report shall specify the rectification measures the company has taken, the significant deficiencies under rectification and the expected completion time of the rectification. The compilation guideline for the "Reports on Fulfillment of Social Responsibilities" requires that a listed company shall, in accordance with its actual conditions and the experience of compiling relevant reports, decide the title and contents of the report, including but not limited to the social responsibility report, the sustainable development report, the environmental responsibility report and the corporate citizen report. Moreover, the guideline lists the issues to which a listed company needs to pay attention in compiling the social responsibility report. A company may disclose the social contribution value per share according to relevant notice, but such company shall simultaneously disclose the calculation standard of social cost. SSE plans to launch "Social Responsibility Index" According to an official of the SSE's Listed Company Department, the SSE-listed companies started to disclose according to the internal control guideline in the annual reports of 2007, where 139 companies disclosed the internal control reports, while some large companies started to disclose the social responsibility reports. However, the lack of a unified format led to the format and length disparity among different companies' internal control reports and social responsibility reports, making it difficult to make comparisons. To tackle that problem, the SSE launched the unified format standard. Also, to enhance the examination efficiency and responsibilities of the listed companies' directors, the SSE introduced the working paper of examination, suggesting the key contents in examining the two reports. The official said that the "Basic Standard for Enterprises' Internal Control" jointly issued by five authorities last June will be implemented among the listed companies since July 1, 2009, so more and more listed companies are actively establishing and improving their internal control systems. By requiring some companies to disclose the internal control reports and the social responsibility reports together with the annual reports, a prevailing rule of the international capital market, the SSE is paving the road for the overall implementation of the "Basic Standard for Enterprises' Internal Control". The official said that the SSE is planning to launch the "Social Responsibility Index" based on the social contribution value per share, whose constituents will be selected from the constituents of the Corporate Governance Index.

Notice of Doing a Better Job for Disclosing 2008 Annual Reports
31 Dec 2008
All listed companies, To do a better job for disclosing listed companies' annual reports of 2008 and in accordance with regulations in the "Rules No.2 on Contents and Format of Information Disclosure by Companies Publicly Issuing Securities -- Contents and Format of Annual Reports" (Amendment in 2007, hereinafter referred to as the "Rules on Annual Reports") and the "SSE Stock Listing Rules" (hereinafter referred to as the "Listing Rules"), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby notifies as follows: 1. The directorate of every listed company should organize relevant personnel to carefully study the "Rules on Annual Reports", carry out requirements of the "Announcement of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) [2008] No.48", implement relevant documents newly issued by the CSRC and the SSE, and promptly compile, submit and disclose annual reports of 2008; 2. Any company listed on the SSE before December 31, 2008 should compile, submit and disclose the annual report of 2008 before April 30, 2009. Any company newly listed between January 1 and April 30, 2009 should also disclose its annual report of 2008 before April 30, 2009 if it fails to disclose the audited financial accounting information of 2008 in its listing announcement. If a listed company predicts it is unable to do so, it should submit written report to the SSE before April 15, 2009 and announce the reason, solutions and deadline of the postponed disclosure. The SSE will suspend trading of its stock and derivatives from May 1, 2009, and at the same time publicly criticize the company and the personnel concerned; 3. According to the principle of balanced disclosure, the SSE, in order to avoid too concentrated disclosure of annual reports of listed companies, will allow a daily maximum of 45 listed companies to disclose their annual reports. Listed companies should, in line with the schedules stipulated with the SSE, arrange their compilation work and timely disclose their annual reports. Schedules for listed companies to disclose their annual reports and any changes will be announced on the SSE's website; 4. The directors, supervisors, senior management and other secrecy-bound personnel of a listed company should hold secret-keeping obligations during the compilation of the annual report, and they should by no means divulge the contents in any ways before the disclosure. Prior to the annual report is officially disclosed, if the performance information is divulged in advance or abnormal fluctuation happens to trading of stock or its derivatives because of performance rumors, the listed company should disclose the performance express according to Article 11.3.5 and 11.3.6 of the "Listing Rules"; 5. A listed company should issue the performance prediction before January 31, 2009 according to Article 11.3.1 and 11.3.2 of the "Listing Rules"; 6. A listed company should, in accordance with the "Notice on Amendment in Regulations for Listed Companies' Cash Dividend" (CSRC Decree [2008] No.57), list the amount of cash dividend in the past 3 years and its proportion to net profit, and also complete the amendments to the Articles of Association before June 30, 2009, specifying its cash dividend policy. A listed company, making profits in 2008 but having no scheme of cash profit distribution, should present reasons in the announcement on directorate resolution that discuss and approve the annual report, and make clear the usage and usage plan for the undistributed profits; 7. If a listed company put forward proposals of cash dividend, bonus shares or capitalization from capital public reserve, which have been approved by the shareholders' meeting, it should, according to the "Rules on Shareholders' Meeting of Listed Companies" (Zheng Jian Fa [2006] No.21), implement the detailed plans within 2 months after the shareholders' meeting; 8. If a listed company's major shareholders made promises on the company's performance in 2008, the directorate should pay attention to the fulfillment of the promise. If the company's performance in 2008 fails to reach the level as the major shareholders promised, the company should urge the major shareholders and related parties to fulfill relevant promises as agreed; 9. A listed company should specify the establishment and improvement of its internal control system in the "Statement on Corporate Governance Structure", including but not limited to the establishment of internal control system, the operation of the inspection and supervision mechanism on internal control, the guidance of the directorate and its audit committee, and also the implementation of the plans required by the "Basic Standard for Enterprises' Internal Control (Cai Kuai [2008] No.7)" and other regulations; 10. SSE-listed companies in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector, those who issue foreign capital stocks listed abroad and financial companies should disclose the directorates' self-evaluation reports of the internal control (hereinafter referred to as "internal control reports") together with the annual reports of 2008. Other qualified listed companies are encouraged to do so. Listed companies are encouraged to engage auditing institutions to verify and evaluate their internal control. In doing so, they should disclose the opinions of auditing institutions. SSE-listed companies in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector, those issue foreign capital stock listed abroad and financial companies should disclose the reports on the fulfillment of social responsibilities (hereinafter referred to as social responsibilities reports) together with the annual reports of 2008. Other qualified listed companies are encouraged to do so. Separate directorate resolution should be made for a company's disclosure of internal control report and social responsibilities report. The internal control report, the opinions of auditing institution on internal control and the social responsibilities report should be disclosed on the SSE website as the attachments to the full text of the annual report. 11. When auditing a listed company's annual financial report, the certified public accountant should issue special remarks on the listed company's capital occupation by controlling shareholders and other related parties in line with the regulations of the "Notice of Some Issues on Regulating Fund Transfer Between Listed Companies and Related Parties and Outward Guarantee Provided by Listed Companies" (Zheng Jian Fa [2003] No.56). A Listed company is also required to disclose the special remarks on the SSE's website when releasing the annual report. A listed company with capital occupation by major shareholders and their affiliated enterprises for non-operational purpose should make additional disclosure of the occupation date, amount, reasons, persons in charge and the directorate's solutions in the "Creditor's Rights and Liabilities between Related Parties" in the "Significant Events" in the full texts of the annual report and the 7.4.3 "listed Companies' Capital Occupation and Clearing Progress in 2008"(see attachment) in the annual report abstract; 12. If a listed company's directors, supervisors, senior management and shareholders with more than 5% shares are suspected of illegal purchase and sale of shares during the reporting period, or such suspected irregularities happen and the profits from them are disclosed to be withdrawn by the company, the listed company should disclose the time and amount of the profits withdrawn by the directorate in the "Significant Events" in the full texts of the annual report; 13. In implementing the new accounting standards, if a listed company has changed or adjusted the items and the amount of the previously disclosed balance sheets at the beginning of 2008 according to the "Explanation No.2 on Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises" (Cai Kuai [2008] No.11) and the "Notice of Implementing Accounting Standards in Annual Reports of 2008" (Cai Kuai Han [2008] No.60) of the Ministry of Finance as well as the latest regulations of the CSRC, it should submit them as a single proposal together with the annual report to the directorate for discussion, and make remarks on the changed or adjusted items and the amount in the directorate resolution. If a listed company has made changes of accounting policies and accounting estimations or the adjustments to significant accounting errors but not for implementing the new accounting standards, it should make remarks in the annual report according to the requirements of the "Rules on Annual Reports". In addition, when submitting the annual report, it should also submit to the SSE the written opinions of the directorate, the board of supervisors and independent directors as well as relevant remarks by the accounting firm concerning the above changes and modifications. The remarks should include the reasons for the above changes and modifications, the detailed accounting treatment, the affected amount on previous years' financial conditions and operational results concerning retroactive adjustments, and whether necessary communication has been conducted with former accounting firm concerning the change of accounting firm. In addition, if the listed company needs to make retroactive adjustments to its financial data of the previous reporting period in the annual report for modifying accounting errors, it should disclose in the form of temporary announcement before or on the disclosure date of the annual report according to the CSRC's regulations. 14. If the accounting firm issues a non-standard audit report (audit report with stressed issues and unqualified opinions as well as audit report with non-unqualified opinions) to a listed company's financial accounting report of 2008, the listed company should submit relevant documents to the SSE according to the regulations of Chapter VI of the "Listing Rules". If the accounting firm issues the audit report with disclaimer of opinion or adverse opinion to a company's financial report of 2008, the listed company should disclose a risk alert every half-month from the disclosure day of the annual report of 2008 to the settlement day of the involved issues or the disclosure day of the semi-annual report of 2009. The risk alert should contain the company's latest operation performance and the progress of the involved issues; 15. A listed company should disclose its extraordinary profit and loss of 2008, require the certified public accountant to verify its trueness, accuracy and completeness, and include related contents of extraordinary profit and loss in the accounting statement's annotations appended in the audit report in accordance with regulations in the "Explanatory Announcement No.1 on Information Disclosure for Companies Offering their Securities to the Public - Extraordinary Profit and Loss (2008)"(CSRC Announcement [2008] No. 43); 16. A listed company which has issued convertible bonds should disclose relevant contents in the annual report according to the requirements of Chapter VI of the "Listing Rules". Commercial banks, insurance companies, securities companies and companies engaged in real estate development should execute the special information disclosure regulations formulated by the CSRC on special industries or businesses; 17. A listed company should apply to the SSE for exemption if it is unable to disclose information according to the "Rules on Annual Reports" due to such special reasons as commercial secrets. Moreover, it should detail the reasons for not performing relevant requirements. Upon approval by the SSE, the company can be exempted from information disclosure, but it should give the reasons in relevant chapters of the annual report; 18. A listed company should complete compilation of the annual report within two working days after the certified public accountant issue an auditing report, and submit the following documents to the SSE within two working days after the directorate approves the annual report: 1) The full text of the annual report of 2008 (including the audited annual financial report) and its abstract (one copy for each) signed by the current legal representative and sealed by the company; 2) The resolution of the directorate, the written confirmation of the annual report of 2008 signed by directors and the senior management, and special remarks and independent opinions on the outward guarantee signed by independent directors; 3) The resolution of the board of supervisors and a written verification opinion of the annual report of 2008 put forward by the board of supervisors in the form of its resolution; 4) An auditing report (original document) and the special remarks (original document) issued by the certified public accountant on the capital occupation by the controlling shareholders and other related parties of the company; 5) The PDF/WORD file and XBRL instance documents of the annual report of 2008 (generated by the SSE information disclosure reporting system). Every listed company should file completely and correctly the content required by the information disclosure reporting system and the content to be disclosed in PDF file. The XBRL instance documents will be disclosed on the SSE website together with the PDF file. (for compilation and submission requirements of e-document, please refer to the business memo of the "Disclosure of Annual Report of 2008" in the Section of Listed Companies on the SSE website); 6) The application form for disclosure of the annual report of 2008 (downloadable from the SSE's website), ready-to-disclose announcements and the application form for disclosure of announcements (one copy for each); and 7) Other documents required by the SSE. A listed company should prepare for enough texts and disks of the annual report and abstract for typesetting and proofreading by the designated newspapers. A listed company should submit the above documents before 15:30 on the trading day prior to the disclosure, and can't contact designated newspapers for publishing the annual report and abstract until the SSE completes relevant registration procedures; 19. Listed companies are encouraged to publish their annual reports on their own websites, yet the time can not be earlier than the disclosure time on the SSE's website; 20. A listed company which has issued domestically listed foreign shares should also publish contents of its annual report overseas at the same time, and timely submit the published foreign newspapers to the SSE for record; 21. The SSE will implement after-action check toward the annual reports of the listed companies. After receiving the examination opinions of the SSE, the companies are supposed to provide written explanations on the issues involved. Besides, they should also publish relevant supplementary and modification announcements in the designated newspapers and websites, and disclose the modified full texts of the annual reports on the SSE's website. Shanghai Stock Exchange December 30, 2008

Notice on Strengthening Filing of Qualifications for Listed Companies' Independent Directors
30 Dec 2008
All listed companies, To further implement the filing of qualifications for listed companies' independent directors and bring into full play the independent directors' functions, according to the "Guidance for Listed Companies on Establishment of Independent Directors System" by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and the "SSE Stock Listing Rules (Amendment in 2008)", the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby publicizes matters concerning the filing of qualifications for listed companies' independent directors. 1. The SSE will pay attention to the following situations of the independent director candidate whose qualification and independence shall conform to the relevant laws, regulations and regulatory documents: (1) Having failed to attend the directorate meeting in person during his or her service as independent director; (2) The independent opinions voiced during his or her service as independent director but found inconsistent with the facts; (3) Having served as director (independent director) or senior manager in more than 5 companies; (4) The intermediary that he or she works for has provided such services as finance, law and consultancy for the listed company and its controlling shareholders in the last one year; (5) Having been condemned publicly or criticized in an SSE circular twice or more in the last three years; (6) Having been under the administrative penalty by the CSRC or other relevant authorities in the last three years; and (7) Other situations affecting the independent director to perform his or her duties faithfully, diligently and independently. The nominator of an independent director shall verify whether the candidate has the above situations and give explanations accordingly. 2. Any candidate for independent director shall obtain the qualification certificate according to the CSRC's "Notice on 'Guidance for Training Listed Companies' Senior Managers' and Relevant Detailed Implementation Rules". 3. Upon a listed company's announcement concerning the date of a shareholders' meeting to elect independent directors, its directorate secretary shall provide online information of the candidates in the "Section of Listed Companies" on the SSE website, and submit, by express delivery, fax or other means, the "Declaration by the Nominator", the "Declaration by the Candidate" and the "Resume of Independent Director" to the SSE. The directorate shall ensure the submitted material by fax in consistent with the original copy. If the directorate dissents from any candidate for independent director, it shall simultaneously submit the written opinions of the directorate to the SSE. 4. A listed company shall, within 3 trading days after disclosing the materials of the candidates for independent directors, publicize the candidates' situations to the public via certain channel and faithfully report all feedbacks and materials to the SSE. 5. The SSE shall, within 5 trading days after receiving the aforesaid materials, examine the qualifications and independence of the candidates for independent directors. During the SSE's filing examination, a listed company's directorate, the candidates and nominators for independent directors shall faithfully answer the SSE's inquiries within the prescribed time and submit in time the supplementary materials as required by the SSE. 6. If the SSE has no dissent from the candidates for independent directors after the 5 trading days, a listed company may hold a shareholders' meeting as scheduled to elect independent directors. The directorate shall explain at the shareholders' meeting the related situations for any candidate that the SSE dissents from and cancel the proposal of reporting him or her to the shareholders' meeting as the candidate for election. 7. In case of any situation same as Items 1 to 4 of Article 1 during the tenure of an independent director, the listed company's directorate shall report to the SSE in time; in case of any situation affecting the independence of an independent director and same as Items 5 to 6 of Article 1, the directorate shall hold a shareholders' meeting in time and propose changing the independent director. 8. The Notice will take effect as of the issuance day, nullifying the "Notice on the Filing of Qualifications for Listed Companies' Independent Directors" issued by the SSE in 2004. December 29, 2008 Shanghai Stock Exchange

SSE Holiday Schedule for 2009
24 Dec 2008
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces holiday schedule for 2009 according to the "Notice of Arrangements concerning Market Closing and Public Holidays in 2009" of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (No. [2008] 147 by CSRC): 1. Arrangements of market closing (1) New Year's Day: The Exchange will close from January 1, 2009 (Thursday) to January 3, 2009 (Saturday) and open for trading on January 5, 2009 (Monday). It will also close on the weekend on January 4, 2009 (Sunday). (2) Spring Festival: The Exchange will close from January 25, (Sunday) to January 31, 2009 (Saturday) and open for trading on February 2 (Monday). It will also close on the weekend on January 24, (Saturday) and February 1, 2009 (Sunday). (3) Tomb Sweeping Day: The Exchange will close from April 4, (Saturday) to April 6, 2009 (Monday) and open for trading on April 7, 2009 (Tuesday). (4) Labor Day: The Exchange will close from May 1, (Friday) to May 3, 2009 (Sunday) and open for trading on May 4 (Monday). (5) Dragon Boat Festival: The Exchange will close from May 28, (Thursday) to May 30, 2009 (Saturday) and will open for trading on June 1, 2009 (Monday). It will also close on the weekend on May 31, 2009 (Sunday). (6) National Day and Mid-Autumn Festival: The Exchange will close from October 1, (Thursday) to October 8, 2009 (Thursday) and open for trading on October 9, 2009 (Friday). It will also close on the weekend on September 27, (Sunday) and October 10, 2009 (Saturday). 2. Relevant clearing issues will be carried out according to the arrangements of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. 3. To ensure the normal trading af ter the holidays, the SSE will provide linkage testing environment of trading system from 9:30 to 12:00 on February 1, 2009 (Sunday) and October 8, 2009 (Thursday). Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. December 23, 2008

Announcement on Launching SSE Sector Indices
22 Dec 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) will launch 10 SSE Sector Indices from January 9, 2009 to reflect the overall performance of companies from different sectors on the Shanghai securities market, providing targets for the development of index investment products, especially the ETF. The indices are the SSE Energy Sector Index, the SSE Materials Sector Index, the SSE Industrials Sector Index, the SSE Consumer Discretionary Sector Index, the SSE Consumer Staples Sector Index, the SSE Health Care Sector Index, the SSE Financials Sector Index, the SSE Information Technology Sector Index, the SSE Telecommunication Services Sector Index and the SSE Utilities Sector Index, with the base day of December 31, 2003 and the base point of 1,000. (Attached please find the compilation plan) Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. December 22, 2008

Announcement on Launching SSE 180 Style Indices
22 Dec 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) will launch the SSE 180 Style Indices from January 9, 2009 to further portray the SSE 180 Index from the perspective of style, providing investors with new performance benchmarks and index investment product targets. The indices consist of the SSE 180 Growth Index, the SSE 180 Value Index, the SSE 180 Relative Growth Index and the SSE 180 Relative Value Index, with the base day of June 28, 2002 and the base point of 1,000. (Attached please find the compilation plan) Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. December 22, 2008

SSE Data Warehouse Phase III Completed
19 Dec 2008
The successful completion of the third phase of Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) data warehouse marks the establishment of China's first enterprise data warehouse master-slave dual systems (production and disaster recovery systems). By improving the information resources sharing and the operation efficiency, the enterprise data warehouse project has provided a comprehensive computation, verification and implementation platform for value-added information services and other innovative services, laying a solid foundation for the SSE's leading position in data services. As an important component of the SSE's information strategic planning, the construction of the enterprise data warehouse aims to better serve all the related links of securities information products by advancing the informatization, decision-making support, market supervision and services, and promoting the product innovation of securities market. The construction of the data warehouse took a long time. The first phase of Operational Data Store (ODS), completed by the SSE in 2003, focused on the SSE basic data platform; in December 2005, it completed the second phase of Multi-Dimensional Data Store (DDS) for the building of applied analysis system and the improvement of data warehouse management. After the two phases, the SSE's data warehouse system, ranking top in the world regarding the advanced technology and applied functions, has become a necessary information sharing platform for the securities market. In view of the huge influence on the securities market that may be brought by the internal/external services suspension of the data warehouse as a result of disasters, the SSE has, based on the two phases, launched the third phase of building China's first enterprise data warehouse master-slave system in July 2007 to secure the continuous data analysis and information service for the stable development of the securities market. By collaborating with Teradata Corporation, the global leader in data warehouse and enterprise analytical solutions, the SSE has implemented a new plan, that is, to optimize the current data platform system framework, adopt diversified storage and protect the old system's investment by the full usage of the existing equipment; store the consistent and redundant detailed data and collected data. In so doing, the system will secure continuous data analysis and information services in case of any breakdown. The data warehouse master-slave system, completed in one year, with its processing performance 49% faster than the old platform, demonstrates the SSE's advanced concepts as well as Teradata's powerful professional knowledge and technology capabilities. Bai Shuo, engineer-in-chief and also Assistant to SSE President, said the SSE has upgraded data warehouse after the Phase III with the support of Teradata's technology team, achieving the four goals of integration, expansion, diversity storage and citywide disaster recovery system. During the project implementation, the transfers between the two data warehouse systems, made within 30 minutes without any changes or errors in source code, data content or data output, proves that the system was upgraded in a fast, precise and efficient manner and could support the normal operation of the exchange's business at the same time. Therefore, the experience of this project is a good example for other similar enterprises to build their data warehouse disaster recovery systems. According to Director Jiang Jianren of the SSE's Information Center, the SSE's data warehouse has seen great improvement in system performance and operation capability. If one system should break down, 250 users of the exchange's 12 departments could still use over 600 applications via the disaster recovery system. Meanwhile, with the outward data output services guaranteed, the system's processing performance can satisfy the business departments' needs, leaving no influence on the stable operation of the securities market. Besides, concerning the processing performance of the third phase, the master system and the slave system are 57% and 49% faster respectively than the old ones. In face of various simulated breakdowns, the system switching, to be made within 30 minutes, with guaranteed data comparison and simultaneous checking, assures the data consistency of the master-slave system. According to General Manager Yang Shunsheng of Teradata East China, the SSE's data warehouse Phase III, the first disaster recovery system of database warehouse established by Teradata in the Asian and Pacific regions, turned out to the best industry practice in the integration of advanced products, the complexity of technology integration, the completeness of applied functions and the wide range of businesses. In future, the SSE will continue to take the lead in domestic securities market with the support of the data warehouse platform and speed up its pace in becoming the world top data service stock exchange by providing information services on investor education, strengthening the data interaction between data warehouse and business systems, developing the data warehouse towards a real-time mode, realizing real-time business intelligence, and satisfying the data analytical needs of the regulatory authorities, SSE's staff and market participants.

Notice of Issuing the "SSE Measures on Appraisal of Listed Companies' Secretaries to Directorates"
10 Dec 2008
All listed companies, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated and issued hereby the "SSE Measures on Appraisal of Listed Companies' Secretaries to Directorates" (the Measures) to enhance listed companies' information disclosure and regulate the activities of listed companies' secretaries to directorates. All listed companies are required to abide by the Measures. All listed companies' secretaries to directorates shall submit their annual duty performance reports to the SSE from May 1 to 15 of 2009, reporting their work since May 1 of 2008 or taking the positions till April 30 of 2009. Shanghai Stock Exchange December 4, 2008

SSE: Rigorous Regulation of Secretaries to Directorates
10 Dec 2008
Failed Secretaries to Directorates in two consecutive annual appraisals will be publicly announced as unsuitable persons. The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated the "SSE Measures on Appraisal of Listed Companies' Secretaries to Directorates" (the Measures) to enhance listed companies' information disclosure and regulate the activities of their secretaries to directorates. Once the Measures take effect on May 1, 2009, the SSE will examine the fulfillment of responsibilities of secretaries to directorates. According to the Measures, the SSE's appraisals will examine integrity, information disclosure, investors' relationship management, equity management, preparation and organization of shareholders' meetings and directorate meetings as well as assistance in compliance of directors, supervisors and other senior managers. The appraisal consists of annual check and departure one, with the appraisal year from May 1 of every year to April 30 of the following year. The SSE will, upon the completion of the appraisal, inform the listed companies' directorates of the results, report it to relevant authorities and announce it to the public. Secretaries to directorates are required to submit the annual duty performance reports to the SSE from May 1 to 15, describing their work since May 1 of the pervious year or being placed in such position till April 30 of the current year. According to the requirement, the SSE published a notice, stating that, from May 1 to 15 of 2009, they shall report their work since May 1 of 2008 or taking such positions till April 30 of 2009. Should they leave office, they shall submit their departure duty performance reports to the SSE before leaving, reporting their work since May 1 of the previous year or taking the positions till they leave. The SSE also requires that listed companies' board of directors and board of supervisors carry out departure review of the plan-to-leave secretaries and report the relevant information to the SSE. In addition, secretaries to directorates who have been publicly denounced as being unqualified shall also submit such duty performance reports before they leave, and the SSE will conduct departure check based on the review reports of the listed companies' boards. According to the Measures, the appraisal results range from excellent, good, qualified to unqualified. The SSE will assess the work of secretaries to directorates based on their duty performance reports, while taking into consideration the day-to-day oversight information and the opinions of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, relevant regional bureaus as well as other relevant institutions and departments. In terms of the SSE's rating standard, the integrity and information disclosure have a much larger proportion in the assessment, totaling 50%. Should any secretary to directorate fails to submit in time the annual duty performance report or has been publicly censured by the SSE during the appraisal year, he or she will not pass the annual appraisal. Should he or she was criticized by the SSE in a circular during the appraisal year, he or she will be at most just pass the annual appraisal. According to the SSE, unqualified secretaries to directorates shall submit rectification plans within 10 trading days after being notified of the results. If a secretary to directorate failed in two consecutive annual appraisals, he or she will be publicly announced by the SSE as being unfit for the post.

SSE Announcement on Abolishing Some Business Rules
04 Dec 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), in line with the stipulations in the national laws, administrative rules, regulations and the "SSE Constitution", and based on the announcement of abolishing relevant business rules (1st batch) in 2004, has rationalized all the standardization documents issued by the SSE since its establishment till September 30, 2008, which are still effective with binding force. It hereby announces the list of 82 business rules that should be abolished or are automatically invalid (see attachment). Shanghai Stock Exchange November 26, 2008

SSE Screens All Business Rules
04 Dec 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) recently screened all the effective standardization documents issued by the exchange from its establishment till October 2008. 338 business rules were eventually confirmed as existing and effective, while the list of 82 abolished ones announced. In 2004, the SSE published a book after its checkup on all the business rules issued by the end of 2003. It is learned that the clear-up is an important measure to continue its progress to "run the SSE in accordance with the law", with the following innovations based on previous experiences. Firstly, it rationalized all the existing business rules issued since the SSE's establishment in1990, covering such areas as SSE's self-organization, market supervision and services in the forms of basic business rules, detailed business rules, business notices as well as various guidelines, white books and memorandums. Secondly, the "Formulation Method of SSE's Business Rules" was amended to improve the rules formulation procedures and further smooth out the working mechanism of formulating, amending and rationalizing the business rules. Thirdly, the "Detailed Rules of Supervising and Evaluating the Implementation of the SSE's Business Rules" was set up to stress the implementation effects of business rules by establishing the supervision and evaluation systems. Fourthly, a long-term mechanism was established to upgrade the efficiency of business rules screening by prompt collection, sorting and updates. Fifthly, focusing on the services to securities issuers, member companies and investors, the screened rules will be published on the SSE's website and updated in time for the convenience of market participants. The SSE is said to take this opportunity to drive the legal system construction on the market, improve its capacity to "run the SSE in accordance with the law" for a transparent, open, safe and efficient market environment, thus promoting the sustainable, sound and harmonious development of the capital market.

SSE Website Launches Regulation Column
02 Dec 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) recently launched a Regulation Column on its website to publicize the regulation rules and information closely related with market participants. As the self-regulatory legal person, under the direct administration of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the SSE, in line with the principle of "Lawfulness, Supervision, Self-regulation, Standardization", is dedicated to creating an open, fair and equitable market environment and to protecting the rights and interests of investors by organizing and supervising securities trading according to  laws, regulations and self-regulatory rules, to perform its self-regulation duties. Thanks to its continuous improvement in the self-regulatory supervision system since its establishment, the SSE has formed three supervision systems over the listed companies, members and market trading behaviour. By rational work division and coordinated operation of the SSE's Listed Company Department, Membership Department and Market Surveillance Department, the SSE has effectively assumed the role of a self-regulatory supervisor on securities market. The establishment of the Disciplinary Committee and the Reexamination Committee has enabled the SSE to improve the punishment procedures of self-regulatory supervision, securing the lawful rights and interests of related parties. In recent years, according to the CSRC's requirement of "prompt report,check and restraint upon discovery", the SSE has, in the spirit of "expanding the scope of self-regulation", reinforced its momentum in the innovation and supervision over securities market, upgrading the overall quality of self-regulation. "Supervision Column", covering the "Supervision Rules", "Supervision Actions" and "Supervision Cases", will introduce the latest information of market supervision. Facing the rapidly-growing securities market, the SSE will continue to implement constant and effective self-regulation supervision, securing an effective, creditable and competitive securities market.

Three Thematic Indices to Be Launched
28 Nov 2008
According to a recent announcement by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI), the SSE 180 Infrastructure Index, the SSE 180 Natural Resource Index and the SSE 180 Transportation Index will be launched on December 15, 2008 to indicate trend of the stocks on such key investment themes as infrastructure construction, natural resources and transportation. The indices will also provide underlying instruments for the indexation investment tools. The base day of the indices is June 28, 2002, with the base point of 1,000. Different from the traditional assets allocation, industry allocation and stock selection, the thematic investment, a popular investment method under the economic globalization since the 1990s, dynamically studies the deep-level reasons for economic development and changes, explores the market themes and looks for the beneficiary enterprises and forms portfolios by selecting stocks of listed companies with relevant themes in different industries and areas. In recent years, infrastructure construction, natural resources and transportation have been the investment themes with great attention in China's securities market. As the foundation and lifeline for the social and economic development, the infrastructure construction, which still has great potential in a developing economic entity as China, has always been the investment focus of governments at different levels and various enterprises. With the current slow-moving economy, it bears the hopes for economic growth. Natural resources, rare and nonrenewable, are another market hotspot. In the past decades of a sharpening contradiction between the rapidly growing economy and the relatively shortage of resources, the prices of various resources have remained high and their long-term values have been continuously enhanced. Transportation, the fundamental industry serving for the national economy, is listed as the preferential industry according to the 11th Five-year Plan. The compilation of the three indices above will not only objectively reflect the market performances of the stocks with the themes of infrastructure construction, natural resources and transportation, but also serve as investment instrument to be developed into such indexation investment products as the index funds and ETF. It is learned that the SSE and the CSI will launch more thematic investment indices in future.  According to the published index scheme, constituents of the three indices are composed of the stocks in the SSE 180 Index to ensure the proper scale and sufficient liquidity. So far, the SSE 180 Infrastructure Index, the SSE 180 Natural Resource Index and the SSE 180 Transportation Index have got 27, 22 and 20 constituents respectively, with their total market capitalization reaching RMB1 trillion, RMB3.2 trillion and RMB584.4 billion and the negotiable market capitalization of RMB440.2 billion, RMB269.7 billion, and RMB193.5 billion, respectively. Same as the SSE 180 Financial Index, the three indices also have 15% weight restriction on each single stock to weaken its impact on the indices. For the compilation method and details, please refer to the SSE and CSI websites. By November 27, 2008, the SSE 180 Infrastructure Index, the SSE 180 Natural Resource Index and the SSE 180 Transportation Index, closing at 1475, 2227 and 1124 points, respectively, had been up 48%, 123% and 12% from the base day, respectively.

Notice of Launching the SSE 180 Infrastructure Index, the SSE 180 Natural Resource Index and the SSE 180 Transportation Index
28 Nov 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) will launch on December 15, 2008 the SSE 180 Infrastructure Index, the SSE 180 Natural Resource Index and the SSE 180 Transportation Index to indicate trend of the stocks on infrastructure construction, natural resources and transportation, and provide underlying instruments for the indexation investment products like ETF. The base day of the indices is June 28, 2002 with the base point of 1,000 (the compilation method is attached). Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. November 28, 2008

Regulation Enhanced to Cease Speculation of Rizhao Port Warrant
19 Nov 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) implements trading suspension twice in a single day. "Rizhao Port CWB1"(with the code of "580015"), a deeply out-of-the-money warrant to be expired on December 2, saw abnormal price fluctuation on its last trading day. Following its tumble just before the close of the previous trading day, the said warrant opened low at RMB1.400 on November 18 but surged to above RMB1.680 in only two minutes. The SSE imposed trading suspension on "Rizhao Port CWB1" for one hour from 09:33, in accordance with the "SSE Guidance for Real-time Supervision on Abnormal Securities Trading" (hereinafter shortened as "Supervision Guidance"). The first suspension cooled down the speculation for a time, as its trading price declined upon the trading resumption from 10:33, even close to RMB1.602. However, some warrant traders, regardless of the risk on the last trading day, scalped the warrant through large-volume trading, driving up its price to RMB2.101 around 10:55. According to the "Supervision Guidance", if the trading prices of an out-of-the-money warrant "accumulatively increase by over 50%" within two months before its expiration day, a second trading suspension will be implemented and sustained to the last 5 minutes before closing. So, the SSE implemented another trading suspension to "Rizhao Port CWB1", which continued to 14:55. The two suspensions by the SSE to curb the speculation of "Rizhao Port CWB1" on its lasting trading day aim to cool down the market speculation and caution investors against the risks. It was the first time the SSE had suspended trading of a security twice in a single trading day to curb market speculation since the issuance of the "Supervision Guidance". The SSE is now further investigating the large-volume trading accounts of that day's speculation. Meanwhile, it will strictly monitor other warrant trading (especially some out-of-the-money to be expired in the first half of next year) and take timely actions to any abnormal trading according to relevant regulations. The SSE reminds the investors of risk prevention, rational investment and legal trading, and also cautions them to avoid blind speculation or follow the trend and stay away from securities with abnormal fluctuation. In addition, the SSE requires members to fulfill the obligations of strengthening the management of clients' trading, doing a good job in risk alert and rules education, cooperating with the SSE in supervision over abnormal trading and improving self-regulation, so as to promote the sound development of the securities market.

SSE Punishes "Zhongzhao Investment" for Illegal Excessive Shareholding of "Commercial City"
18 Nov 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has found in its securities trading supervision that the institution account of Zhongzhao Investment Management Co., Ltd. (hereinafter shortened as "Zhongzhao Investment") bought 6,532,927 shares of Shen Yang Commercial City Co., Ltd. (hereinafter shortened as "Commercial City") (accounting for 3.67% of its total issued shares) in one trading day, resulting in its holding of 15,377,498 shares of the said stock by the close of the same day, accounting for 8.63% of the total issued shares. "Zhongzhao Investment" broke the "SSE Stock Listing Rules" (hereinafter referred to as the "Listing Rules") and the "SSE Trading Rules" (hereinafter referred to as the "Trading Rules") as it failed to stop in time the trading of the "Commercial City" upon holding 5% of the total issued shares or perform the reporting and information disclosure obligations required by the laws and regulations. "Zhongzhao Investment" has submitted to the SSE a "Commitment Letter of Compliance Trading" after SSE summoned its executives responsible for securities investment and warned them of their illegal trading. To punish such large-scale illegal excessive shareholding as well as to caution other investors, in accordance with the "Listing Rules" and the "Trading Rules", with the approval of the SSE Disciplinary Committee, the SSE has recently made such disciplinary punishment resolutions to "Zhongzhao Investment" as public criticism and one-month trading restriction of "Commercial City" to its account. Moreover, as the above illegal trading by "Zhongzhao Investment" and the purchase of "Commercial City" stocks were suspected of "concerted action", the SSE has reported to the China Securities Regulatory Commission for further investigation and disposal. The SSE hopes that investors will join hands to maintain a sustainable and healthy development of the market by observing the laws, regulations and the exchange's business rules in securities trading, voluntarily safeguarding the trading order of the securities market, performing the information disclosure obligations and cooperating in the information disclosure of listed companies.

XNA Financial Information Platform Joins Hands with SSE
05 Nov 2008
Financial Information Collection Station Inaugurated at the SSE by XNA Vice President Lu Wei, SSE Governor Geng Liang The Xinhua News Agency (XNA) and the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) further expanded their cooperation as the XNA Financial Information Platform established on the SSE its first Financial Information Collection Station ever on the domestic capital market on November 4. Before, the Platform had already entered Wall Street, with an information collection station on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). XNA Vice President Lu Wei, SSE Governor Geng Liang inaugurated the Station. It is learned that full-time journalists will be dispatched to the SSE upon the establishment of the Station for collecting and publishing promptly the first-hand financial information on the Shanghai securities market. According to the "XNA, SSE Framework Agreement on All-round Cooperation" signed by the XNA and the SSE this May in Beijing, the two parties will cooperate widely and closely in such fields as financial information services to build a news collection and publication mechanism for deep cooperation in fields of commercial data and information products. Through the channels and platforms including the "Xinhua 08", a comprehensive financial information service system independently developed by the XNA, efforts will be made to popularize the key information and data on the Shanghai securities market to cultivate the market, educate investors and make deep information research. Besides, they will also work together in information technology and talent exchange. As a national project in accordance with the "Outline of Cultural Development for the 'Eleventh Five-Year Plan'", the XNA Financial Information Platform is a comprehensive financial information service system, serving as a terminal for providing real-time information, market quotations, historical data, research tools and analysis models for economic management departments, financial institutions and large/medium enterprises in their transactions of bonds, foreign exchanges, stocks, gold, futures and property rights both at home and abroad. On October 20, the Shanghai Headquarters of XNA Financial Information Platform was inaugurated in the Lujiazui Finance & Trade Zone in Pudong District to boost the construction of Shanghai's international financial center and upgrade the efficiency of financial information collection. It is a vital move for the Headquarters to set up the Station on the SSE. Following its successful move into the Wall Street with a station on the NYSE for timely collection of daily financial information, the XNA is also planning to establish more stations on other key elements markets both at home and abroad.

Announcement of Adjusting Constituent Selection Methods of SSE 180, 50 Indices
03 Nov 2008
Based on extensive market survey and upon examination by the committee of index experts, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. have decided to make the following adjustments to index rules of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index to meet the changes of the securities market: 1. The constituent selection method of the SSE 180 Index is changed from "Rank the stocks according to their total market capitalization, floating market capitalization, turnover and turnover rate, and decide the constituent number of each industry based on its floating market capitalization proportion" to "Rank the stocks according to their total market capitalization and turnover, and decide the constituent number based on the free float adjusted market capitalization of each industry"; the index constituent universe is changed from "Remove any stock listed for less than a quarter (unless its daily average floating market capitalization ranks among the top 18 on the SSE)" to "Remove any stock listed for less than a quarter (unless its daily average total market capitalization ranks among the top 18 on the SSE)". 2. The constituent selection method of the SSE 50 Index is changed from "Rank the stocks according to their floating market capitalization and turnover" to "Rank the stocks according to their total market capitalization and turnover". 3. Other compiling methods of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index remain unchanged. The rules adjustment will take effect upon the next constituents' regular adjustment. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. November 3, 2008

SSE, CSI to Launch 4 Indices of Corporate Bonds, Detachable Convertible Bonds on Nov. 19
03 Nov 2008
To comprehensively reflect the price fluctuation trend of corporate bonds and convertible bonds with detachable trade on the exchanges, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) will launch the SSE Corporate Bond Index, the SSE Detachable Convertible Bond Index, the CSI Corporate Bond Index and the CSI Detachable Convertible Bond Index from November 19, 2008. Among them, the two SSE indices' constituents are composed of the corporate bonds and the convertible bonds with detachable trade on the SSE, while the two CSI indices' constituents are composed of the corresponding bonds on the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE). Both the corporate bonds and the detachable convertible bonds have seen active trading, with their total turnover on the SSE and the SZSE from early this year till the end of September up to RMB87.96 billion (with RMB73.32 billion on the SSE), or nearly 70.2% of the total turnover of all enterprise bonds on the two exchanges. Therefore, it is significant to independently reflect the conditions of the two types of bonds. In addition, separated market indices will enhance the innovation of the existing bond products and the development of the bond market. It is of great significance to launch the four indices, providing more comprehensive market analysis tools to the investors and promoting the bond market development. According to the published index scheme, the above four indices will have the same base day of December 31, 2007 and the same base point of 100. By October 31, 2008, the SSE Corporate Bond Index, the SSE Detachable Convertible Bond Index, the CSI Corporate Bond Index and the CSI Detachable Convertible Bond Index had closed at 113.56, 112.95, 112.29 and113.02 points, respectively. For the compiling methods and details about the above indices, please refer to the websites of the SSE and the CSI. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. November 3, 2008

SSE, SZSE, CSI Jointly Publish Market Indicators of Key Indices
24 Oct 2008
To improve the public service of important indices and increase market transparency, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) will jointly publish on the Shanghai Securities News everyday the market indicators of the SSE Composite Index, the SSE 180 Index, the SSE 50 Index, the SZSE Component Index, the SZSE 100 Index, the SZSE SME Composite Index, the SHSE-SZSE300 Index and other key indices as of today, so that investors could better grasp and evaluate the market investment value.  It is learned that the jointly-published market indicators consist of static price-earnings ratio, dynamic price-earnings ratio and price-to-book ratio. Price-earnings ratio is an important reference for investors to analyze the stock market and make investment decisions. The new dynamic price-earnings ratio, another important investment reference, is calculated with the financial data of the last four quarters. Different from the static price-earnings ratio using last year's annual report data, it takes into consideration the latest operation performance of listed companies and could reflect the current market evaluation in a more accurate and timely manner. Please refer to the relevant columns of the Shanghai Securities News for the market indicators of all important indices. In addition, more detailed indicators will be published on the websites of the SSE, the SZSE and CSI to provide more references for the investors, covering the influence points of individual shares on the SHSE-SZSE300 Index as well as the 5 best and 5 worst sectors of the SSE and the SZSE. According to statistics, the static and the dynamic price-earnings ratios of the SSE Composite Index are 15.24 and 14.14, respectively, if calculated according to the closing prices of yesterday. The counterparts of the SZSE Component Index are 13.64 and 12.62, respectively, while those of the SHSE-SZSE300 Index are 14.58 and 13.66, respectively. Compared with the data at the end of last year, the static price-earnings ratios of the SSE Composite Index, the SZSE Component Index and the SHSE-SZSE300 Index fell by 74%, 77% and 74%, respectively, while the dynamic price-earnings ratios of the three indices fell by 68%, 72% and 67%, respectively.

HKEx, SSE Subsidiaries Market Data Collaboration Agreement Inked
20 Oct 2008
HKEx Information Services Limited (HKEx-IS) and SSE InfoNet Ltd., the information business subsidiaries of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEx) and Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) respectively, signed a market data collaboration agreement today (Monday). The agreement was signed by Managing Director Wang Yong of SSE InfoNet Ltd. and Director Bryan Chan of HKEx-IS in the presence of SSE President Zhang Yujun, HKEx Chairman Ronald Arculli and Chief Executive Paul Chow. Also attending the signing ceremony were other senior management from both parties. The collaboration aims to keep the prospective investors more informed by enhancing the transparency of the securities listed and traded simultaneously on the SSE and HKEx (AH shares). According to the agreement, HKEx-IS has the right to redistribute the basic real-time data of SSE's AH shares to authorized information vendors, who will transfer the data to their end-users for internal display. Likewise, SSE InfoNet Ltd. has the right to redistribute the basic real-time data of HKEx's AH shares to authorized Level-2 information vendors, who will transfer the data to their end-users for internal display. The collaboration will take effect as of January 1, 2009, with a time limit of 2 years. The market data fees are waived for HKEx-IS, SSE InfoNet Ltd., their authorized information vendors and the market data users under the collaboration plan. This plan is expected to benefit investors of both markets and improve the transparency of the securities listed and traded simultaneously on the two markets. By the end of this September, the Hong Kong-listed stocks of the 48 companies, simultaneously listed in Shanghai and Hong Kong, had accounted for 29% of the turnover on HKEx and 23% of its total market capitalization. "This agreement will improve the transparency of the Mainland and Hong Kong markets, upgrade the information services of the two exchanges while providing complete market data and better services to investors as well as further enhancing the cooperation of the two exchanges," said SSE President Zhang Yujun. "The market data collaboration agreement we signed with the SSE today signifies a closer integration and cooperation between the Mainland and Hong Kong markets. We are convinced that this plan will benefit investors of both markets and will be welcomed by them," said HKEx Chief Executive Paul Chow.

Notice of Issuing "SSE Business Guidelines for Shares Repurchase by Listed Companies through Auction Trading"
11 Oct 2008
All listed companies, To regulate the shares repurchase by listed companies through auction trading and ensure the smooth operation of relevant business, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has formulated and issued hereby the "SSE Business Guidelines for Shares Repurchase by Listed Companies through Auction Trading" in accordance with the "Supplementary Provision on Shares Repurchase by Listed Companies through Auction Trading" of the China Securities Regulatory Commission. All listed companies are required to follow the Guidelines. Shanghai Stock Exchange October 10, 2008

Q&A on Bond Trading at Net Price
09 Oct 2008
Q: What is bond trading at net price? A: It refers to the bond spot trading quoted and concluded at the price without the accrued interest. Under such circumstance, the price formation and change will better reflect the bonds' intrinsic value, supply-demand relation and the trend of interest change. Q: What does net price trading and full price settlement mean? A: It means that the bond order and trading will be executed at net price and settled at full price by summing up the trading price and the accrued interest. Q: How to calculate the accrued interest? A: Accrued interest = coupon rate / 365 (days)×number (of days) during when the interest accrues 1. The accrued interest is the interest accrued from the "value date" to the "trading date" in the very interest payment period. And, the interest will be calculated as of the "value date". 2. The coupon rate: for bonds with fixed interest rate, it refers to the coupon rate of bond issuance; for bonds with floating interest rate, it refers to the interest rate of the very interest payment period. 3. The days of one year are stipulated to be 365 days (excluding February 29 of the leap year); the days during when the interest accrues are the actual calendar days from the "value date" to the "trading date". 4. If the coupon rate cannot be divided exactly by 365 days, per RMB100 interest precision (to the eighth decimal place) will be adopted by the computer system when calculating; the accrued interest listed on the delivery order will be rounded off to the nearest 0.01, with the currency unit of RMB. 5. The "accrued interest per RMB100" shown on the trading date includes the interest calculated on this very "trading date". If the bonds are at maturity, the accrued interest should be counted from the "value date" to the "maturity date" (excluded). Q: When will the net price trading and full price settlement be applied to the enterprise bonds and the corporate bonds out of the convertible bonds of detachable trade (the "detachable convertible bonds")? A: It will be adopted from October 13, 2008. Treasury bonds and corporate bonds have already been traded at net price, and the convertible bonds listed on the SSE will continue to be traded at full price. Q: Which one will be adopted for the order of bond spot trading after implementation of the net-price trading, the securities account or the Participants Business Units (PBUs)? A: The orders of bond spot trading should be placed through the securities accounts and executed at net price, according to the "SSE Detailed Rules on Bond Trading" (Amendment in 2008) issued on September 26, 2008. Q: How will the market information be disclosed after adopting the net-price trading? A: The quotation system and the market information disclosure system will simultaneously display the net price and the accrued interest. Quotation will be made by per RMB100 bond in net price trading, with the accrued interest listed by per RMB100 bond. In particular, investors should notice that certain changes will take place on the first trading day when the enterprise bonds and the detachable convertible bonds are traded at net price. Currently, the market price, under the full price trading mode, is full price (net price + accrued interest). However, the net price will be listed after conducting net price trading. Therefore, investors are cautioned of such changes on the first day of the net price trading, with downside gap of all bond varieties in the K line graph. For instance If the net price trading will be implemented on October 13 and Bond A closes at RMB109.20 on October 10, the closing price, after implementing the net price trading, should be converted to another closing price in the net price trading, which will then be taken as the "opening reference price" for the net price trading on October 13. In addition, if the accrued interest of Bond A is RMB0.59523287 (calculated to the eighth decimal place and displayed by rounding off to the nearest 0.01) on October 10, its closing price in the net price trading = the closing price on October 10 – the accrued interest at maturity on the very day. Thus, the "opening reference price" of Bond A in the net price trading on October 13 is RMB108.60. Providing that the net price of Bond A is RMB108.70 on October 13, investors can take this quotation as the reference price while making orders of entrusted trading, and the "trading price" should be presented in the form of net price. However, the settlement price remains the full price, namely, the sum of the net price and the accrued interest. Generally, delivery orders will provide investors with settlement price, net price for bond trading and corresponding accrued interest. Supposing that the accrued interest is RMB0.59593287 on October 13, the settlement price will be RMB109.29593287 accordingly.

SSE to Hold 34th Qualification Training Course for Secretaries to Directorate in Early November
08 Oct 2008
To regulate the practices of Secretaries to Directorate and Representatives of Securities Affairs of listed companies and enhance their professional levels, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will hold the 34th Qualification Training Course for Secretaries to Directorate in Shanghai National Accounting Institute from November 3 to 7 in accordance with the "Guidance of Training for Listed Companies' Senior Management" and the "Detailed Rules on Training for Secretaries to Directorate of Listed Companies" of the China Securities Regulatory Commission as well as the "Administrative Measures on Training for Secretaries to Directorate of Listed Companies" of the SSE. The course, sponsored by the SSE and undertaken by the Shanghai Association of Secretary to Directorate of Listed Companies, will cover such contents as explanations to the "SSE Stock Listing Rules", information disclosure and standardized operation of listed companies, the legal liabilities and obligations of Secretaries to Directorate and Representatives of Securities Affairs and the management of investors' relationship of listed companies. For more information, please visit the websites of the SSE and the Shanghai Association of Secretary to Directorate of Listed Companies.

Notice on Waiving Charges of Bond Spot Trading, Repo
08 Oct 2008
All member units and other trading participants, To further promote bond market development and encourage investors' participation in bond trading, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) notifies hereby the following issues on waiving charges of bond spot trading and repo. 1. The spot trading and repo of treasury bonds, enterprise bonds and corporate bonds (including convertible bonds) through the auction trading system and the block trading system and on the fixed income platform will be exempted from relevant trading fees according to the Notice. 2. The exemption covers the trading brokerage and trading flow fees that trading participants should pay to the SSE for the aforesaid bond trading, as well as the usage fees and the flow velocity fees of the "Participants Business Units" for the bond spot trading and repo. 3. All trading participants will be exempted from the above trading fees for their bond spot trading and repo on the SSE from October 6, 2008 to November 30, 2009. 4. From December 1, 2009, any trading participant who ranks top 50 in terms of trading volume of the bond spot trading and repo from November 1 of the year before to October 31 of the very year will receive an exemption of the above trading fees from December 1 of the very year to November 30 of the next year. 5. The SSE will decide whether to cancel the exemption or adjust the charges for the aforesaid bond trading according to the bond market development. 6. The Notice will take effect as of the issuance day. Shanghai Stock Exchange October 7, 2008

Notice on Trading of Enterprise Bonds, Detachable Convertible Bonds through Securities Accounts at Net Price
06 Oct 2008
All member units, To promote the bond market development, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will adjust the order and quotation modes of the enterprise bonds and the corporate bonds out of the convertible bonds of detachable trade (hereinafter referred to as the "detachable convertible bonds") on October 13, 2008. Orders of trading will be executed through securities accounts instead of trading units, quoted at net price instead of full price, and settled at full price. Also, eligible enterprise bonds and detachable convertible bonds could participate in the general collateral repo. All member units are required to cooperate in the following issues: I. Major adjustments 1. Orders of trading of the enterprise bonds (with the code segments of "120***" and "129***") will be executed through securities accounts instead of trading units in the name of members, and the members will take charge of the front control. 2. The enterprise bonds and the detachable convertible bonds (with the code segment of "126***") will be listed simultaneously on the SSE auction trading system and the comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities. Orders of trading will be executed at net price and settled at full price. 3. The enterprise bonds and the detachable convertible bonds eligible for general collateral repo will be notified later. Please refer to the SSE's "Notice of Adopting Code Segments of '105***'" on September 23, 2008 for the special securities codes for in-and-out storage. 4. The order for pledging the enterprise bonds and the detachable convertible bonds as well as relevant switch-back could be executed through the SSE auction trading system and on the comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities. The bonds bought through the auction trading system could be ordered for in-storage as pledged bonds on the same day. The bonds successfully ordered for out-storage as pledged bonds through the said system could be sold on the same day. 5. The special accounts for securities companies' client enterprise bonds (hereinafter shortened as "special accounts") could not buy enterprise bonds or participate in the general collateral repo, and could only sell the existing enterprise bonds. The members will take charge of the front control. 6. The payment of principal and interest as well as charges of the enterprise bonds and the detachable convertible bonds should be implemented according to the rules on corporate bonds. II. Preparations and requirements All member units should work on the technical preparations and data submission in accordance with the"Notice of Technical Preparations for Enterprise Bond Trading through Securities Accounts at Net Price" and the "Notice on Data Submission of Enterprise Bond Trading through Securities Accounts at Net Price". 1. The official data submission will be conducted from 9:00 p.m. on October 10 to 8:00 a.m. on October 11, and all member units should pay attention to the following issues: (1) The trial data during the trial submission period from October 6 to 10 will be cleared after the closing on October 10. (2) All member units must submit the official data during the official submission phase, and the final valid data will serve as the basis for entering the relevant enterprise bonds in designated accounts. (3) After the deadline, if any member unit fails to submit data or files an invalid submission, the enterprise bonds originally recorded in the client's bond settlement unit will be recorded in the special accounts. Concerning the enterprise bonds originally recorded in the proprietary bond settlement units of such institutions as securities companies, fund companies, insurance companies or finance companies, such bonds should be registered in the securities accounts ordered earlier, regardless of whether the total volume of the participant's valid submission equals to the total volume of the enterprise bonds with the same code in the self-owned or rented bond settlement units. 2. At 12:00 a.m. on October 11, the Shanghai Branch of China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd. (SD&C) will publish the enterprise bonds' balance data following the entering in accounts. All member units are required to receive the data in time. 3. The SSE and the SD&C will conduct the whole market testing from 4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. on October 11. Specific arrangements will be notified later. Shanghai Stock Exchange October 6, 2008

Notice of Implementing "SSE Detailed Rules on Bond Trading" (Amendment in 2008)
27 Sep 2008
All member units and market participants, To promote the development of bond market, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has amended the "SSE Detailed Rules on Bond Trading" (hereinafter shortened as the "Detailed Rules") and announces hereby the following issues: 1. Article 2 of the former "Detailed Rules" is amended as follows: the "Detailed Rules" applies to the spot trading and the general collateral repo of such bonds as treasury bonds, corporate bonds, enterprise bonds and the corporate bonds out of the convertible bonds of discrete transaction (hereinafter jointly referred to as the "bonds") through the SSE auction trading system. In addition, the trading rules and other relevant regulations of the SSE　will apply to those that have not been stipulated in the "Detailed Rules". Bond trading through the SSE's comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities is subject to further notice. The trading rules and other relevant regulations of the SSE apply to the convertible bonds and other bond types listed on the SSE. 2. A second paragraph is added to Article 4 of the former "Detailed Rules" as follows: a member shall be responsible for the legitimacy, truthfulness, accuracy and integrity of its bond trading orders to the SSE and assume relevant legal liabilities. If a member files an order by using its client's bonds as pledged bonds of repo or files an order to have spot bond trading, the SSE will assume that it has already been agreed by the client, and will not take the examination obligation. (Article 3 of the new "Detail Rules") 3. Article 8 of the former "Detailed Rules" is amended as follows: orders for spot trading of bonds shall be placed through the securities accounts and executed at net price. (Article 6 of the new "Detail Rules") 4. Orders for the enterprise bonds listed on the SSE shall not be placed through the securities accounts until they are registered in the holders' securities accounts. 5. Timetable for trading of the enterprise bonds and the corporate bonds out of the convertible bonds of discrete transaction at net price are subject to further notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange September 26, 2008

Notice of Implementing "Provisional Rules on Trading on SSE Comprehensive Electronic Platform of Fixed Income Securities"
27 Sep 2008
All market participants, To improve the trading efficiency of fixed income securities and promote the development of fixed income securities market, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has amended the "Trial Measures on Trading on SSE Comprehensive Electronic Platform of Fixed Income Securities" and renamed it as the "Provisional Rules on Trading on SSE Comprehensive Electronic Platform of Fixed Income Securities" (hereinafter shortened as the "Provisional Rules"). It hereby releases the "Provisional Rules" (Please refer to the Attachment) and announces the following issues: 1. Any investor who has obtained the qualification for eligible investor of SSE's block trading system can become the dealer of the comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities (hereinafter shortened as the fixed income platform), but it should apply to the SSE's Membership Department for the digital certificate of the fixed income platform and sign the "Master Agreement on Trading on Comprehensive Electronic Platform of Fixed Income Securities". 2. The fixed income platform is still in trial operation, and the fixed income securities in trading include treasury bonds, corporate bonds, enterprise bonds and the corporate bonds out of the convertible bonds of discrete transaction. During the trial operation, the trading of fixed income securities will not be counted into any SSE index. 3. During the trail operation, the "Provisional Rules" only applies to the trading among dealers. Specific timetable and requirements for contractual trading between dealers and clients will be notified later. 4. The "Provisional Rules" will be implemented since September 27, 2008, with the "Trial Measures on Trading on SSE Comprehensive Electronic Platform of Fixed Income Securities" (Shang Zheng Zhai Zi [2007] No.45) abolished at the same time. Shanghai Stock Exchange September 26, 2008

Notice of Issuing "SSE Code of Conduct for Individual Investors"
27 Sep 2008
All member units and market participants, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), after a recent investigation and analysis on the structure and situation of individual investors on Shanghai's securities market, has worked out the "SSE Code of Conduct for Individual Investors" (hereinafter shortened as the "Code of Conduct") to promote the market development, foster mature, rational and eligible investors as well as further regulate market investment. All member units are required to implement the "Code of Conduct" as follows: 1. Reading of the "Code of Conduct", which should be posted at such conspicuous places as business departments, should be included in the process of opening accounts. Each counter should follow the procedure. 2. Combining with such parts as members' client management, individual investors should be guided to voluntarily abide by the "Code of Conduct". And they should embrace the concept of "buyers take the consequences" and conduct rational investment. 3. The SSE's "Detailed Rules on Members' Management of Clients' Securities Trading" and other regulations should be strictly implemented for investors' observing the "Code of Conduct". Shanghai Stock Exchange September 27, 2008

Notice of Amending Article 7 of "Code of Conduct for Shareholding Increase by Listed Companies' Shareholders and Their Concerted Actors"
25 Sep 2008
All listed companies, To better regulate the shareholding increase by listed companies' shareholders and their concerted actors, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby amends Article 7 of the "Code of Conduct for Shareholding Increase by Listed Companies' Shareholders and Their Concerted Actors" as follows: Article 7 Relevant shareholders shall not increase holding of a listed company's shares in the following time periods: 1. if a listed company, within 10 days before announcing its performance express or periodical report, fails to announce its performance express and postpones the announcement date of its periodical report for a special reason, the time period shall be calculated since the 1st day of the 10 days before the scheduled announcement date of the periodical report; 2. since the occurrence or decision procedure of a significant event which may have a great impact on a listed company's stock price till 2 trading days after its legitimate disclosure; or 3. other time periods stipulated by the SSE. The aforesaid amendment shall be effective as of today. Shanghai Stock Exchange September 24, 2008

Notice of Adopting Code Segments of "105***"
24 Sep 2008
All member units, In order to meet the requirements of enterprise bonds and detachable convertible bonds (i.e., the bonds out of the convertible corporate bonds with detachable trade) participating in trading of new general collateral repos through accounts, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has decided to allot special securities code segments for in and out storage of the said bonds.   1. the Code Segment 105000－105899 for in and out storage of pledged bonds of the detachable convertible bonds (with the code segment of "126***") eligible to participate in the trading of new general collateral repos, with the last 3 digits corresponding to the counterparts of the detachable bonds' codes; 2. the Code Segment 105900－105999 for in and out storage of pledged bonds of the enterprise bonds (with the code segments of "120***" and "129***") eligible to participate in the trading of new general collateral repos, and the corresponding code relations will be notified later. All member units are required to make relevant preparations. Shanghai Stock Exchange September 23, 2008

Notice on Data Submission of Enterprise Bond Trading through Securities Accounts at Net Price
24 Sep 2008
All member units, In accordance with the "Notice of Technical Preparations for Enterprise Bond Trading through Securities Accounts at Net Price", the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has entrusted the Shanghai Branch of China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd. (SD&C) with the related data submission, which requires member units to submit data through the PROP system of SD&C (please refer to the attachment for data interface specification). All the member units should notice that the trial submission will be conducted from October 6 to 10, and the trial data will be cleared after the closing on October 10. The official data submission will be conducted from 9:00 p.m. on October 10 to 8:00 a.m. on Octob 11, after which the SSE and the SD&C will conduct the data processing. The system test will be from 4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. on October 11, and the system will offer the trading data in due form on October 13. Please test specifically the two changes of the system: 1. the account balance of enterprise bonds, etc., never checked before, will be checked from then on; 2. orders of trading will be executed at net price instead of full price, and settled at full price. All member units are required to cooperate in related work. SD&C Shanghai Branch Technical Hotline: 021-68870354 September 24, 2008

SSE Corporate Bond Index & SSE Detachable Convertible Bond Index to Be Launched
22 Sep 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently announced the launch of the SSE Corporate Bond Index and the SSE Detachable Convertible Bond Index in late October, with an aim to comprehensively reflect the whole trend of the price fluctuation of corporate bonds and convertible bonds with detachable trade on the SSE, and to serve the investors as an analysis tool and a performance appraisal benchmark. Each index, the first of its kind, will exclusively indicate the price trend of the corporate bonds and the convertible bonds with detachable trade, respectively, on China's bond market. By September 18, there had been 16 types of corporate bonds listed on the SSE and 6 on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), with the total financing amount up to RMB41.4 billion. With the successive listing of a number of corporate bonds issued by large enterprises, the scale of bonds on the stock exchanges will be increasingly expanded. Meanwhile, the convertible bonds with detachable trade (hereinafter shortened as the detachable convertible bonds), an innovative bond product issued since the end of 2006, is in rapid development, with 16 types of bonds on the SSE and 3 on the SZSE, witnessing the RMB85.3 billion total financing amount. Besides, both the corporate bonds and the detachable convertible bonds have seen active trading, with their total turnover from early this year till the end of August up to RMB70.2 billion, or nearly 70% of the total turnover of all enterprise bonds on the exchanges. Therefore, it is significant to independently reflect the conditions of the two types of bonds. According to the published index scheme, the two indices are composed of the corporate bonds and the convertible bonds with detachable trade on the SSE and the SZSE. Their codes will be "000022" and "000023" respectively, with the same base day of December 31, 2007 and the same base point of 100. Thanks to the governmental strategy for establishing a vigorous bond market in full swing, the corporate bonds and the detachable convertible bonds embrace a good opportunity, with more bond products to be developed. Undoubtedly, the timely introduction of the two indices will provide more references for investors' analysis and decisions on bond investment. For the compiling methods and details about the SSE Corporate Bond Index and the SSE Detachable Bond Index, please refer to the websites of the SSE and the CSI.

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2008 National Day
19 Sep 2008
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the National Day of 2008 according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2008" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2007] No.18). 1. Arrangements of market closure: the Exchange will close from September 29, (Monday) to October 5, 2008 (Sunday) and open for trading on October 6, 2008 (Monday). It will also close at the weekends on September 27, (Saturday) and September 28, 2008 (Sunday). 2. Relevant clearing issues will be carried out according to the arrangements of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. Ltd. 3. To ensure the normal trading after the holiday, the SSE will provide linkage testing of trading systems (including the block trading system and the comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities) from 09:30 to 12:00 on October 5, 2008 (Sunday). Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. September 18, 2008

Notice of Cooperation in Adjusting Stamp Duty Rate for Securities Trading
18 Sep 2008
All member units, The Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation have, upon approval of the State Council, has decided to adjust the collection method of stamp duty for securities (stock) trading since September 19, 2008. To a transfer deed on purchase, sale, inheritance or donation of A or B shares, the 1‰ stamp duty rate for securities (stock) trading imposed on both parties now only applies to the remising party, i.e., the receiving party will no longer pay the stamp duty. All member units are required to make relevant adjustments. Please contact us for any questions. September 18, 2008

Notice of Issuing "SSE Stock Listing Rules (Amendment in 2008)"
05 Sep 2008
All listed companies and sponsors, The "SSE Stock Listing Rules (Amendment in 2008)" (hereinafter referred to as the "Listing Rules"), approved by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), is hereby issued by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and will be effective since October 1, 2008, with the "SSE Stock Listing Rules (Amendment in 2006)" abolished at the same time. For comparison of the new and the old listing rules, please refer to the comparison table in the "Section of Listed Companies" on the SSE website. The following issues are hereby announced for a smooth transition to the "Listing Rules". 1. If a listed company's annual report of 2007 discloses that its capital has been non-operationally occupied by its controlling shareholder and related parties or it has violated decision-making procedures to provide outward guarantees, which remain unsettled before December 31, 2008, or if such serious problems occur in a listed company since the implementation of the "Listing Rules", the company should timely submit such documents as the directorate statement, the verification report given by relevant authority and the special report issued by relevant accounting firm to the SSE, and disclose them. The trading of the company's stocks and their derivatives will be suspended on the disclosure day, and the SSE will impose other special treatments upon its stock trading since the trading resumption day. 2. For a company that has already entered bankruptcy procedures, it should disclose delisting risk alert within 2 trading days since the implementation of the "Listing Rules", as the bankruptcy procedures may trigger other delisting conditions. 3. If the term of a company's agreement on connected transactions related to daily operation exceeds 3 years, the company should, in accordance with the Article 10.2.14 of the "Listing Rules", fulfill corresponding discussion procedures and disclosure obligations again before December 31, 2008. 4. A listed company's current directors, supervisors and senior management should re-sign the "Statement and Commitment Letter of Directors (Supervisors and Senior Management)", and submit them to the SSE within 6 months since the implementation of the "Listing Rules". Shanghai Stock Exchange September 4, 2008

Q&A by SSE Official Concerning "Stock Listing Rules"
05 Sep 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) today released the "SSE Stock Listing Rules" (Amendment in 2008) (hereinafter referred to as the "Listing Rules"), which will be officially implemented as of October 1, 2008. Upon an interview, an SSE official made a detailed introduction to the main amendment to the "Listing Rules". Q: What is the background for the SSE to amend the "Listing Rules"? A: Since the issuance of the "SSE Stock Listing Rules" (Amendment in 2006) in May 2006, the securities market, with the completion of equity division reform, has advanced to a new stage. Great changes have taken place in the market structure, market scale and main participants, owing to the implementation of laws and regulations including the "Measures on Administration of Information Disclosure of Listed Companies", the "Measures on Administration of Listed Companies' Acquisition" (Amendment in 2006), the "Administration Measures for Significant Asset Restructuring of Listed Companies" and the new "Accounting Standards for Enterprises", the trial equity incentives, the diversified innovation of market restructuring and financing as well as the value-oriented investment concept. Meanwhile, due to the relationships between all shareholders' interests and the listed companies' stock prices, new problems have popped up in the listed companies' information disclosure. Specifically, the violation of rules and disclosure of fraudulent information, with more complicated motives and more subtle means, will be likely to collude with the profit transfer, insider dealing and market manipulation. Accordingly, under the general deployment and coordination of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) have made corresponding amendments to the current "Listing Rules". Q: What are the guiding principles for the SSE to amend the "Listing Rules"? A: In the amendment process, the SSE has, under the principles of the "Measures on Administration of Information Disclosure of Listed Companies" released by the CSRC, analyzed the characteristics on the all-floating market as well as some big problems and related causes, and summarized the experience in the implementation and regulation of the listed companies' information disclosure since 2006. Particularly, the SSE has, by focusing on the stock prices' abnormal fluctuation, perfected the prompt reaction mechanism of joint supervision over the listed companies' information disclosure and the market transaction, with an aim to boost the timely, fair, truthful, accurate, complete, transparent and effective information disclosure. Therefore, by learning other information disclosure systems from overseas exchanges, the SSE has, upon repeated discussions and extensive market survey, worked out the amendment to the Listing Rules". Q: What are the new system arrangements in the "Listing Rules" for the big problems on the all-floating market? A: Firstly, the trading suspension system has been changed, with the one-hour regular trading suspension cancelled and the alert trading suspension emphasized. Specifically, instead of being based on the importance of listed companies' announcements, the trading suspension principle attaches importance to fairness and symmetry of the information disclosure, to improve market efficiency and reinforce the joint supervision over the information disclosure and the market transaction. Moreover, the one-hour regular trading suspension for significant information has been cancelled on the whole, such as disclosure of annual reports, performance predictions, profit distribution schemes, proposals disapproved by the shareholders' meetings, while focuses have been put on the alert trading suspensions resulting from overdue information disclosure, suspicion of violating laws and regulations as well as abnormal fluctuation of stock prices. Meanwhile, the listed companies should take the initiative to apply for trading suspension, if their significant information to be unveiled is difficult to keep confidential or has been leaked before the scheduled disclosure date. As for abnormal fluctuation of the stock prices with rumors, the SSE has, by learning from the overseas markets, adopted the trading suspension during business hours. Besides, to curb the impact of the long-term trading suspension on the market efficiency and protect the investors' legal rights, the listed companies in the long-term trading suspension period are required to announce the causes of trading suspension and the progress in related issues every 5 trading days. In addition, efforts will be made to regulate the trading behavior of listed companies' directors, supervisors, senior management and shareholders. Instead of illegal purchase and sale of shares, they should, as required by the Listing Rules, abide by the laws and rules as well as the relevant rules stipulated by the CSRC and the exchange. If directors, supervisors and senior management plan to purchase and sell the listed companies' shares, they should report to the exchange for filing in advance. As for the short-term trading by the directors, supervisors, senior management and shareholders, the boards of directors should take over their illegal incomes and disclose relevant information. Q: What is the long-term mechanism for preventing major shareholders' capital occupation in the "Listing Rules"? A: A special treatment has been added to the "Listing Rules" this time, to consolidate the achievements in clearing the capital occupation of the listed company by major shareholders and related parties over the past few years, protect legal rights and interests of small and medium shareholders, encourage the listed companies' establishment of long-term mechanisms to preventing capital occupation by their major shareholders and related parties, and perfect the supervision over illegal guarantee. That is to say, the exchange will conduct the other special treatment to a listed company, if it is burdened with non-operational capital occupation by controlling shareholders and related parties, or violate decision-making procedures to provide outward guarantees. Once these problems are solved, the listed company can also apply for withdrawal of the other special treatment at any time. Furthermore, the listed companies and related parties will be urged to solve the capital occupation and illegal guarantees through timely and flexible measures, instead of giving punishments only based on their disclosed annual reports. Q: What are the new requirements to regulate the information disclosure of listed companies? A: Firstly, the "Listing Rules" explains the basic principles of information disclosure, namely, authenticity, accuracy, integrity, timeliness and fairness. The fair disclosure is emphasized that listed companies should disclose significant information to all investors at the same time, instead of disclosing or leaking to one or some investors only. If the reports or messages that the listed companies send to their shareholders, actual controllers and other third parties involve undisclosed significant information, they should report to the exchange and disclose the relevant information. To implement the above principles, the listed companies are required to formulate and strictly enforce their management systems of information disclosure, which should also be disclosed on the exchange website. Secondly, to stress the importance of information disclosure and regulate its management, the "Listing Rules" requires that a listed company should establish the department of information disclosure under the supervision by secretary to directorate. In addition, secretaries to directorate have new responsibilities such as publishing company information, paying attention to media reports and actively verifying the reports as well as organizing training of relevant laws and regulations for directors, supervisors and senior management, which enable him or her to organize the information disclosure through the above-mentioned department. Q: What are the new requirements on the information disclosure for directors, supervisors, secretaries to directorates and other senior management? A: Firstly, the "Listing Rules" specifies the duties of directors, supervisors, senior management and secretaries to directorates in disclosing periodical reports as follows: managers, financial directors, secretaries to directorates and other senior management should timely compile drafts of periodical reports; directors and senior management should sign written opinions on the periodical reports and state whether they approve the contents or not; boards of supervisors should examine the periodical reports compiled by boards of directors, and explain whether the compiling and examination procedures for the periodical reports conform to relevant rules and whether the contents are truthful, accurate and complete in resolutions of boards of supervisors. Directors and senior management should not refuse to sign the written opinions for any reason to delay the disclosure of periodical reports. Besides, if the resolutions of the periodical reports discussed and approved by the directorate meetings are not available, the listed companies should disclose related circumstances in form of directorate announcements to give the reasons and potential risks. The listed companies should not disclose the periodical reports without the discussion and approval of their directorates. Secondly, to regulate connected transactions, the "Listing Rules" requires that directors, supervisors, senior management, shareholders holding more than 5% shares and their concerted actors as well as actual controllers should notify the connections to the listed companies, who will then submit them to the SSE for records. Thirdly, to further define the information disclosure obligations of directors, supervisors and senior management, the "Listing Rules" has amended the format of the "Statement and Commitment Letter" according to the "Amendment to Criminal Law (VI)" to raise their legal risk awareness. Q: What is the delisting procedure for the company whose equity distribution fails to meet the listing requirements? A: The "Listing Rules" defines the inconformity of equity distribution as follows: for 20 consecutive trading days, holders of public shares hold less than 25% shares, or they hold less than 10% shares for a company with more than RMB0.4 billion shares. The corresponding delisting procedure grants a "1 + 6 + 6" grace period as follows: the company in question could provide a solution within 1 month since the trading suspension due to the inconformity of its equity distribution with the listing requirements, implement the solution within 6 months since the delisting risk alert, and try to solve the problem by other ways such as contractual transfer within 6 months after the listing suspension, otherwise it will be delisted. Meanwhile, if the inconformity of equity distribution with the listing requirements is caused by a purchaser's fulfillment of tender offer, which does not aim to delist the company, the company and its purchaser could submit a solution to the exchange within 5 trading days after the announcement on the tender offer result, and implement it upon approval by the exchange. Q: What is the purpose in adding the regulations on "bankruptcy" and "equity incentive" to the "Listing Rules"? A: With the growth of the securities market and the implementation of the "Enterprise Bankruptcy Law of the People's Republic of China", bankruptcy has not only occurred in the companies with listing suspension, but also in the companies with delisting risk alert. Moreover, as procedures for restructuring and reconciliation were introduced into bankruptcy for the first time, it has been more intricate for bankrupt companies to unveil information, schedule trading suspension and resumption and persons in charge of information disclosure. Therefore, since the current regulations for bankruptcy are confined and unsubstantial, the amendment this time has, in line with the definition of bankruptcy and delisting in the "Securities Laws" as well as relevant provisions in the "Enterprise Bankruptcy Law", stipulated two delisting procedures for the companies applying to the court for bankruptcy: firstly, if the court accepts the listed company's applications for restructuring, reconciliation and bankruptcy liquidation, the exchange will impose delisting risk alert on it, and provide 20 trading days to release risks, after which the trading suspension will be implemented. The trading will be resumed after the court makes corresponding judgments; secondly, the exchange will make a decision to delist the company as soon as the court declares its bankruptcy, instead of waiting for the court's terminating the bankruptcy liquidation. In addition, stipulations have been specified for the bankrupt companies on the schedule and content of information disclosure. Given the listed companies' operational modes (either managed or supervised by the administrator), the "Listing Rules" have also defined the duties of the persons in charge of information disclosure. Concerning specific procedures for implementing the equity incentive, the amendment has specified the time points, contents and procedures of information disclosure when an equity incentive plan goes through procedures for the directorate's discussion, the CSRC's filing for voicing dissents, the approval by the state-owned assets supervision & administration authority and the resolution by the shareholders' meeting, and the plan is implemented at different stages (such as its authorization or registration). Apart from publishing notices of equity incentive plans, listed companies are required to disclose information in detail on the exchange website, including incentive objects' names, positions (posts), and the amount of the to-be-granted restricted stocks or stock options. Furthermore, efforts should be made by the companies' boards of supervisors, their independent directors and intermediaries, to supervise over the implementation of equity incentive plan. Q: What have been changed for the limits of floating shares issued by IPO according to the "Listing Rules"? A: Under the all-floating market environment, by learning from the experience of overseas markets, if the issuer increases capital within 12 months prior to the issuance of IPO prospectus, the period during which the holder promises not to transfer its newly-increased shares will be shortened from the original 36 months to 12 months. Besides, as for the 36-month time limit for the controlling shareholder and the actual controller since the IPO, the amendment this time has allowed them, upon application to the exchange by controlling shareholders and actual controllers, to transfer their shares one year after the IPO if the control relationship exists between the two parties of transfer, or the two are controlled by the same controller. Q: What are the differences between the listed rules amended in 2006 and 2008, in terms of applicable objects? A: Thanks to our experience in supervision, the newly amended rules have extended its supervisory range to the securities service institutions including accounting firms issuing the special remarks for listed companies' information disclosure, as well as assets appraisal agencies. Certified public accountants should disclose the periodical reports on schedule regardless of auditing work. Q: What changes are made in the supervisory measures and punishments towards supervisees' violation according to the "Listing Rules"? A: In daily supervision, the documents issued by the regulation-breaking sponsors, securities service institutions and their personnel concerned will not be accepted. As for the punishments, a minimal of three-year time limit for reassuming positions will be given to the listed companies' directors, supervisors and senior management, if they are publicly announced to be unqualified for senior management in the listed companies.

SSE Market Closure Schedule for 2008 Mid-Autumn Festival
04 Sep 2008
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the 2008 Mid-Autumn Festival according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2008" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2007] No.18). It will close from September 13 (Saturday) to September 15, 2008 (Monday) and open for trading on September 16, 2008 (Tuesday). Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange September 3, 2008

SSE Recruits 2008 Post-Doctoral Researchers
01 Sep 2008
To attract top talents for the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and Shanghai’s international financial center, the SSE and the Corporate Post-doctoral Research Stations of Pudong New Area in Shanghai now invite the 2008 post-doctoral researchers to join in the construction of China’s securities market. We offer top research facilities and working environment as well as sophisticated expert teams. Post-doctoral researchers can start their careers from research projects focusing on the basis, integration, perspective and practicality of the capital market’s development. We hereby announce the following issues: I. Qualifications 1. Excellent in both morality and learning, with good heath; 2. Holding a Ph.D. in the recent two years or will have one soon, with academic specialties in economics, management, finance, accounting, statistics, law, applied mathematics and computer science; 3. Under 35 years old; 4. Capable of engaging in full-time post-doctoral research; 5. Experience in the securities industry will be a plus. II. Post-doctoral research subjects and recruiting numbers We plan to recruit 10 post-doctoral researchers in 2008. Applicants may choose one or two subjects from the following 16 ones: 1. The operation and management of securities exchanges 2. The incorporation of China’s securities exchanges 3. The internationalization of exchanges 4. The cross-border and cross-exchange trading systems 5. The derivatives market development of securities exchanges 6. The bonds market development of securities exchanges 7. The trading mechanism of securities exchanges 8. The supervision over member units of securities exchanges 9. The supervision over trading in the securities market 10. The incentive mechanism and supervision of listed companies 11. The market for controlling right of listed companies 12. The financial and accounting systems of listed companies 13. The investor behavior 14. The institutional investors and eligible investor system 15. The self-regulation of securities exchanges 16. The information technology application on the securities market III. Application requirements and contact information 1. Applicants are required to submit the following materials to the SSE by September 25, 2008: (1) Resume (attaching 2 copies of latest 1" photo [without hat]); (2) Copies of graduate certificate and diploma for Doctor’s Degree; for those who will graduate soon, copies of the resolution issued by the college-level dissertation committee for Doctor’s Degree or student ID copies (Please mark the graduation time) should be provided; (3) Recommendation letters from two Ph.D. Advisors in related academic field (one of them should be the Ph.D. Advisor of the applicant); Note: for an overseas applicant studying abroad, a recommendation letter from his/her foreign expert should be provided. (4) Copies of ID card or equal authentic credentials such as foreign residence permit and military ID; (5) The selected subject (2 at most) and a summary of research plan (within 5000 words, 2 research plans needed for 2 subjects); (6) a thesis for Doctor’s Degree (the applicant who haven’t had the dissertation examination yet may provide the first draft or the detailed outline) and two academic works (electronic versions are acceptable); and (7) Pleasing mark the source from which you have learned this recruitment. All application materials will not be returned. 2. The SSE will recruit the post-doctoral researchers in the principle of "pubic examination, fair competition and meticulous culling". Eligible applicants will be notified for written and oral examinations, and the written examination will test the professional knowledge of the selected subjects and English. The SSE will take on the travel and hotel charges per standards. The examination will be held in October 2008, and specific time will be announced later. We will not interview any visitor who doesn’t make an appointment. Mailing Address: HR Department, Shanghai Stock Exchange, 528 South Pudong Road, Shanghai (Please mark "applying for post-doctoral researcher") Zip Code: 200120 Telephone: 021-68800095 Contact Person: Lu Wenying E-mail: expert3@sse.com.cn

Notice of Issuing "Code of Conduct for Shareholding Increase by Listed Companies' Shareholders and Their Concerted Actors"
29 Aug 2008
All listed companies, To better regulate the shareholding increase by listed companies' shareholders and their concerted actors, in accordance with the "Measures on Administration of Listed Companies' Acquisition" and the "SSE Stock Listing Rules", the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby issues the "Code of Conduct for Shareholding Increase by Listed Companies' Shareholders and Their Concerted Actors", effective as of today. Listed companies are required to follow the Code of Conduct. Shanghai Stock Exchange August 28, 2008

SSE Issues Format Instruction of Mineral Right Disclosure
26 Aug 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) issues today the "No.18 Format Instruction on Temporary Announcements of Listed Companies" to regulate the information disclosure of listed companies concerning acquisition and transfer (remising or receiving) of mineral right (including prospecting right and mining right). Listed companies are required to detail their mineral rights in line with the instruction, if they acquire, receive or remise mineral rights, plan to purchase or sell the equities of other companies whose major assets are mineral rights, or plan to establish joint ventures by contributing mineral rights. The instruction specifies the requirements of disclosing mineral right ownerships, exploitation approval and mining right evaluation. Listed companies should verify whether they have obtained related prospecting or mining licenses, disclose whether they have necessary project approvals and environmental protection approvals as well as safe production licenses for exploitation, and disclose in line with industry standards such value factors as recoverable reserves and duration of mineral rights. It also requires listed companies to disclose qualifications and production conditions, anticipated production time and maximum production capacity concerning their mining rights. To prevent misunderstanding by investors, the instruction lays more emphasis on diligence obligations of listed companies' directorates and requires them to verify the issues that should be disclosed according to the instruction. Their independent directors can, if necessary, engage professional institutions for examination. Meanwhile, insiders should fulfill confidentiality obligations, and listed companies should timely issue special notices and apply for trading suspension if relevant issues are leaked.

SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index to Be Launched
26 Aug 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently announced that the SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index, a new investment target index for investors, would be launched on September 10, 2008 to indicate trend of the stocks with good corporate governance in the SSE 180 Index. The base day of the index, the same as that of the SSE Corporate Governance Index, is June 29, 2007. Its short description is "SSE 180 Governance", with the base point of 1,000 and the code of "000021". The SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index is a theme derivative index from the SSE 180 Index and the SSE Corporate Governance Index. According to the published index scheme, constituents of the index are composed of the top 100 stocks with large scale and sufficient liquidity in the SSE 180 Index and the SSE Corporate Governance Index. So far, the total market capitalization of the 100 constituents has reached RMB8.5363 trillion, or 66.93% of the A shares' total on the SSE. Their floating capitalization has been RMB2.1439 trillion, or 55.63% of the A shares' total on the SSE. Complying with adjustment to the constituents of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE Corporate Governance Index, the SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index will be adjusted on the first trading day of January and July every year, allowing special adjustments as well. For the compiling method of the index or other details, please refer to the websites of the SSE and the CSI. It is learned that the launch of the SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index aims to provide investors with a new investment target. With the launch of the SSE Corporate Governance Index at the beginning of 2008, the corporate governance has drawn more attention of listed companies and the market. Based on domestic and foreign researches, investors are willing to pay higher premiums for the stocks with better corporate governance. The SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index, composed of the stocks with good corporate governance in the SSE 180 Index (a core index of the SSE), will serve as a good investment target. The SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index closed on August 25, 2008 at 667 points.

Announcement on Launching SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index
26 Aug 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. hereby announce that the SSE 180 Corporate Governance Index, a new investment target for investors, will be launched on September 10, 2008 to indicate trend of the stocks with good corporate governance in the SSE 180 Index. The constituents of the index are composed of the top 100 stocks with large scale and sufficient liquidity in the SSE 180 Index and the SSE Corporate Governance Index, with the base day of June 29, 2007 and the base point of 1,000. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. August 26, 2008

Notice of Issuing "No.18 Format Instruction on Temporary Announcements of Listed Companies: Announcement on Acquisition & Transfer of Mineral Rights by Listed Companies"
26 Aug 2008
All listed companies, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), according to the "Measures on Administration of Information Disclosure of Listed Companies" and the "SSE Stock Listing Rules", hereby issues the "No.18 Format Instruction on Temporary Announcements of Listed Companies: Announcement on Acquisition & Transfer of Mineral Rights by Listed Companies" to further regulate listed companies' information disclosure. Listed companies are required to follow the instruction as of today. Shanghai Stock Exchange August 26, 2008

Notice of CSR Electronic Offline IPO
29 Jul 2008
All units related to new shares' offline issuance, The IPO of China South Locomotive & Rolling Stock Corporation Limited (shortened hereafter as "CSR") has been approved by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. According to regulations of the "Detailed Rules for Electronic Offline IPO on Shanghai Market", CSR will adopt electronic offline issuance. Related issues are notified as follows: 1. Electronic offline issuance only opens to eligible inquirees and allotees. Individual investors should subscribe for new shares through online issuance. 2. To guarantee the smooth electronic offline issuance adopted recently by some companies, inquirees and allotees participating in the offline issuance of CSR should still log into the SSE's IPO electronic offline subscription platform (shortened hereafter as the subscription platform) with their user passwords of the database. Investors should make relevant technical preparations for electronic offline issuance to guarantee the smooth logging-in of the subscription platform during the issuance period. 3. Inquirees should set up the customer end software according to the "Instructions for Setup & Configuration of Customer End of SSE IPO Electronic Offline Subscription Platform". Within the period of preliminary inquiry and offline issuance announced by the issuers, the inquirees can log into the customer end of the subscription platform with their SSE-released database customers (trader codes) and logging-in passwords, to participate in the preliminary inquiry and quotation as well as the accumulative bidding inquiry, quotation and subscription. 4. For the schedule of and other remarks on the issuance, please refer to the "Announcement on Arrangement for IPO of A Shares and Preliminary Inquiry" and the "Announcement on Offline IPO of A Shares". 5. For policies and regulations of electronic offline issuance and other business notices, please refer to the special column of electronic offline issuance on the SSE website (www.sse.com.cn). Since this Notice, the SSE will no longer issue special notices of issuers' electronic offline IPO. All units related to new shares' offline issuance can refer to relevant notices released by issuers and sponsors. Telephone numbers for technical support of the subscription platform: 4008888400 ext. 8003, 021-68800406, 021-68804225, and 021-68803316. Telephone numbers for business support of the electronic offline issuance: 021-68806289 and 021-68804229. Shanghai Stock Exchange July 28, 2008

SSE Requires Members to Prevent Technical Systems' Risks
07 Jul 2008
The "Detailed Rules on Technical Management of Member's Trading and Related Systems" Issued Recently In light of the status quo in market information safety, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently issued the "Detailed Rules on Technical Management of Member's Trading and Related Systems" (hereinafter shortened as the "Detailed Rules on Technical Management") to implement the "Rules on Supervision over Securities Companies" and the "Rules on Risk Disposal of Securities Companies" as well as information safety requirements of the China Securities Regulatory Commission in securities and futures industries. Ensure Safety of Securities Information Systems At present, fully-electronic trading systems of China's securities market cover all segments of securities trading. A safe and stable securities market depends on safe securities information systems, which calls for safety of trading and relevant systems. However, a few members' trading and technical management are still weak in technical system capacity, system management and safety, response to bullish markets and treatment to disasters and emergencies. Members' trading activities are realized by connecting to the SSE through relevant technical systems, so whether their connecting systems are in line with the SSE's relevant technical standards and whether their technical management is satisfactory are essential to the normal operation of the SSE's trading system, the foundation of the whole securities market's safe operation. As an organizer of the securities market, the SSE has worked out the "Detailed Rules on Technical Management" to standardize members' safety management of technical systems, thus preventing market trading risks and strengthening members' technical safety management. To introduce the SSE's effective management mode and flow in safe operation to its members, the "Detailed Rules on Technical Management" specifies the lowest standards of connecting members' systems of trading, market data, communication and backup to the SSE's system and raises the management requirements of members' daily operation such as safe operation, terminal connection, communication safety, emergency schemes and system tests, in hope of helping members further improve technical management standards and optimize information technology development plans. Six Requirements to Improve Members' Technology Management Rationalizing major problems in information safety on the current securities market and considering features of China's securities market, the "Detailed Rules on Technology Management" proposes some standardized requirements to the members' technology management. Firstly, members are required to establish scientific and reasonable systems of technology management organization and security guarantee, strengthen the construction of information technology governance structure and work out overall plans of business development and technology management. Secondly, members should strengthen the construction of information technology management system and formulate management systems including system construction, safe operation, emergency treatment, data management and safety protection, and periodically check the systems' implementation. Thirdly, members are supposed to establish an internal responsibility system of information safety and implement an accountability system of safety accidents according to the principles of "Personnel in charge take the responsibilities" and "Operators take the responsibilities". Fourthly, members are required to plan the information technology input and talents team construction in line with demands of business development. Fifthly, members should establish real-time monitoring systems, timely discovering and dealing with the technical malfunction and intrusive activities of hackers and lawbreakers. Sixthly, members are supposed to make compliance check, technology audit and periodical risk evaluation to trading and relevant systems as well as their safety management. According to the SSE, after the promulgation of the "Detailed Rules on Technology Management", members should conduct an overall self-check to their information safety according to the Rules. Besides, heads of members, as the first responsible persons for information safety, are required to intensify their safety awareness and strengthen the technology management. In the future, the SSE will implement the "Detailed Rules on Technology Management" in members' internal technology management systems to ensure the safety and stableness of the securities market by carrying out on-spot inspections and driving members to reach the stipulated technology standards.

SSE: Various Moves for Investor Education
03 Jul 2008
1st-Phase Investor Education Website Completed Recently, under the unified deployment of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has launched a subsidiary of its official website -- the investor education website (http://edu.sse.com.cn or http://www.sse.com.cn/edu/) by integrating investor education resources and rationalizing internal and external relations, in the hope of conducting an overall and thorough investor education and further implementing the "Rules on Supervision over Securities Companies" and the "Detailed Rules on Members' Management of Clients' Securities Trading" promulgated by the CSRC and the SSE, respectively. Based on this website platform, the SSE also aims to strengthen member units' responsibilities and obligations of investor education, improve operational mechanism of investor education, share information among relevant units and foster a mature, rational and professional investor team. By utilizing its own resources advantage, the SSE investor education website tries to build a more professional and resourceful platform of investor education, simulated training and qualification accreditation, so as to meet investors' increasingly diversified learning demands and pave a solid foundation for establishing eligible investor system. The 1st-phase website consists of 7 columns, among which the "Education Updates" Column includes the "Newspapers & Magazines" Sector and the "Experience Exchange" Sector for investor education. Through establishing a sound reporting system of member units' investor education, the SSE timely foretells the latest investor education information of member units in this column, in order to promote the industry experience exchange and help investors to obtain information. The "Risk Disclosure" Column reminds investors of investment risks based on the SSE's business development. By establishing a short message platform of member units' investor education contact persons, it also urges member units to timely disclose risks of relevant products to investors. The "Dr. Hai Series" Column aims at laying a solid foundation for investor education. The sub-columns of Courses, Q & A and Bookshelf publicize securities ABCs and explain the SSE's new products and trading rules to the market participants. This series will be updated continuously in future to enrich the content and make it easily understood. The website, bringing advantages to the establishment of the "simulation training camp" Column, will further introduce online platforms of simulation testing and qualification accreditation, to make initial preparations for the realization of the eligible investor system. The to-be-launched real-time simulation trading such as ETF will set up the SSE's independent brand of investor education product. It is learnt that, the SSE will further improve the 1st phase education information platform of the investor education website, and it is now actively preparing for the construction of the 2nd phase simulation testing and the 3rd phase qualification accreditation platforms. The SSE hopes to effectively implement the investor education and service work through the online platform in a long-term and systematic way. On the one hand, based on the platform, the SSE will gradually improve the supervision mechanism of investor education by member units, to promote member units' active implementation of investor education. Investors can supervise member units' investor education through the complaint mailbox on the SSE investor education website. As to the member units with inadequate investor education and too many clients' complaints, the SSE will disclose them in relevant media and report to the regulatory authorities. On the other hand, through the platform, the communication between the exchange and investors will be strengthened, especially that between the exchange and individual investors. The SSE will, in terms of the investor education, further improve investor service through various online activities. In the near future, the SSE plans to introduce all kinds of investor education programs together with the media to elect "My Favorite Investor Education Brand", thus encouraging wide participation of market participants and media as well as strengthening the investor education. The SSE hopes that investors will pay close attention to the progress in the activities on the investor education website (http://edu.sse.com.cn or http://www.sse.com.cn/edu/) and offer valuable suggestions. Furthermore, the SSE expects active participation of member units and relevant institutions in the industry, for jointly building a comprehensive investor education platform.

SSE: To Waive Annual Fees of Listed Companies in Sichuan, Chongqing, Gansu, Shaanxi
02 Jul 2008
To cooperate in the reconstruction of listed companies and member companies in the disaster-stricken areas, reduce listed companies' burden and provide technical support for securities companies, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has, upon its recent study, made such decisions as follows: firstly, the SSE's total 71 listed companies from Sichuan, Gansu and Shaanxi Provinces as well as Chongqing Municipality will be exempted from annual fees for listing in 2008. Similarly, the to-be-listed companies from the above areas in 2008 will be exempted from initial fees and annual fees for listing, and listing fees for issuance and listing of convertible bonds of discrete transaction in 2008 will be free of charge for the companies from the above areas. Secondly, the above companies' senior management, including secretaries to directorate, will be exempted from their training fees of 2008 charged by the SSE. Thirdly, 24-hour technical support and door-to-door service will be provided for member companies in the disaster-hit areas. The SSE will continue to pay close attention to the reconstruction of the quake-hit areas to further intensify its support and better implement the reconstruction.

SSE Issues "Detailed Rules on Disciplinary Punishment" Today
01 Jul 2008
A 20-Member Disciplinary Committee Established On July 1, 2008, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) officially issued the "SSE Detailed Rules on Disciplinary Punishment" (the "Detailed Rules on Disciplinary Punishment"), to be effective as of the issuance date. The Disciplinary Committee, exclusively in charge of disciplinary punishment duties, was set up in the meantime. Major Significance in Three Aspects According to an SSE official, the stipulation of the "Detailed Rules on Disciplinary Punishment" and the formation of the Disciplinary Committee, a measure for further implementing the new "Securities Law", improving the "separation mechanism of investigation and examination" and standardizing self-regulation, is significant in three aspects. Firstly, it is conducive to the strengthening and implementation of the SSE's self-regulation. With the completion of the equity division reform and the fluctuations of the securities market, market violations with new characteristics and changes have cropped up repeatedly. All this makes it necessary for the SSE to keep strengthening and improving frontline supervision. The stipulation of the "Detailed Rules on Disciplinary Punishment" and the formation of the Disciplinary Committee will help the SSE lose no time to stop and punish violations of laws and regulations in information disclosure and securities trading of listed companies by playing up its self-regulation advantage and implementing self-regulation function. Secondly, it will improve the justice and standardization of SSE's disciplinary punishment. It is an important and common method of exerting power and conduct supervision of self-regulation for the SSE to implement disciplinary punishment on the main body of the market violations. With certain binding force and restriction, disciplinary punishment will affect the rights and image of the relevant personnel. The disciplinary committee is established to examine, in line with the mechanism, procedure and requirements of the "Detailed Rules on Disciplinary Punishment", the criticism notices, public criticism and other disciplinary punishment decisions upon listed companies, members and other main bodies. Therefore, the self-regulation mechanism with separated, correlated and mutually restrained investigation and punishment of violations will be formed so as to impose disciplinary punishment in a more scientific and democratic approach. Also, the disciplinary punishment will adopt uniform standard and procedure for the promotion of justice and transparency in the implementation of disciplinary punishment. Thirdly, it will rationalize the SSE's self-regulation organization structure. Regarding exchanges' self-regulation in mature markets, disciplinary committees are set up in most cases for the sake of centralizing disciplinary punishment power. The current Disciplinary Committee established by the SSE, together with the Listing Committee (examination of securities listing, suspension and delisting) and the Review Committee (examination of appeal against SSE's supervision measures), will make up a special committee organization structure -- the core of the SSE's self-regulation, contributing to the consolidation of SSE's self-regulation mechanism and internal governance structure. Four Highlights of Contents It is learned that the "Detailed Rules on Disciplinary Punishment", which specifies the scope, mechanism, procedure and organization structure of disciplinary punishment, covers the four main parts as follows: Firstly, it demarcates the scope of the "Detailed Rules on Disciplinary Punishment". A) The SSE issues criticism notices and publicly criticizes a listed company and its directors, supervisors, senior managers, sponsor and its representatives and relevant obligor of information disclosure. B) The SSE publicly confirms the directors, supervisors or senior managers of a listed company ineligible for their positions and advises the listed company to change the directorate secretary. C) The SSE issues criticism notices and publicly criticizes a member and its directors, supervisors and senior management, suspend or limit its trading and cancel its trading jurisdiction. D) The SSE puts trading limit of investors' securities accounts and other disciplinary punishment stipulated in SSE's business rules. Secondly, it nails downs the respective duties in disciplinary punishment. Relevant business department, still responsible for the investigation and evidence collection of violation cases, should give disciplinary punishment suggestion based on that. As the working team of the Disciplinary Committee, the Legal Affairs Department, which is responsible for accepting disciplinary punishment cases, prepares examination meeting and handling relevant business. The Disciplinary Committee will, in line with the stipulated method and procedure, examine disciplinary punishment cases and provide opinions, based on which the SSE will make a disciplinary punishment decision. SSE president or his authorized Vice-President will issue the decision. Thirdly, the basic procedures of disciplinary punishment are defined. According to the regulations, the disciplinary punishment's procedures fall into five stages: The first stage is the implementation of investigation and inquiry by relevant business departments. During the performance of the self-regulatory management duties, except in the emergency case which calls for immediate start of the disciplinary punishment procedures for regulatees with valid violations, relevant business department should, in the name of the department, send to the regulatees a disciplinary punishment letter of intent which notifies the prospective disciplinary punishment, a brief explanation and the requirement of written reply in the designated time upon discovering regulatees' suspected violation subject to punishment.. The second stage is the intent reply of the disciplinary punishment. Within 3 work days after receiving the disciplinary punishment letter of intent, the regulatees should provide a written reply on whether to accept the SSE's prospective disciplinary punishment or not. The regulatees should present a written statement for any objections over the punishment. The third stage is the disciplinary punishment suggestions from relevant business departments. The suggestions are supposed to include such contents as regulatees' violation facts, suggested disciplinary punishment and explanations. The fourth stage is the examination of the disciplinary punishment. The disciplinary committee will put forward the official disciplinary punishment opinion based on the examination of the suggested punishment by relevant business departments. According to the examination voting result, the disciplinary committee will work out the following three treatments to the report of disciplinary punishment examination: the first is to make an opinion letter of disciplinary punishment if they think the punishment should be given; the second is to return the report to relevant business departments for supplementary investigation in case of unclear fact, insufficient evidence or omissions of violations or violators; the third is to deliver the report to relevant business departments if they think there are no violations to the SSE's business rules or violations with slight nature. The fifth stage is the official resolutions of the disciplinary punishment. The SSE's decisions based on the examinations of the disciplinary committee will be signed and released by the president or its authorized vice-president. Fourthly, the examination methods of the disciplinary committee are defined. According to the regulations, the examination meeting will be the centerpiece for the disciplinary committee's examination methods. Meanwhile, with the aim to rapidly improve the efficiency of the disciplinary punishment and treat the irregular market activities, the "Detailed Rules for Disciplinary Punishment" established simple examination method of communication voting based on the principle of "division of complicated and simple". In terms of the regulations, the disciplinary committee can directly carry out the communication voting to form disciplinary punishment opinions under the four circumstances requiring immediate start of the punishment, including public criticism to the regulatees, trading restriction to investors' securities accounts, regulatees' definite attitude to accept the disciplinary punishment and circumstance with clear facts and emergency. However, no matter the examination meeting or the communication voting is going to be, the 5 examination commissioners should at least consist of such two commissioners, one from the SSE's specific supervision business department with reference to the disciplinary punishment and the other from the SSE's legal department. It is learnt that the SSE has officially established a 20-commissioner disciplinary committee, who are professionals from the SSE's relevant business department, legal department and outside of the SSE. The commissioners are supposed to independently and earnestly perform the duties in their own names and put forward the examination opinions in the process of performing duties. Besides, anything that might affect the fairness of examination should be avoided. The disciplinary committee workgroup was established under the SSE's legal department. Furthermore, it is known that relevant regulatees who refuse to accept the disciplinary punishment and are within the reexamination scope can apply to the reexamination committee established under the SSE Board of Governors. The implementation of relevant disciplinary punishment resolutions won't cease during the reexamination.

SSE Issues New Rules to Control Use & Management of Raised Fund
28 Jun 2008
The "Administrative Rules of Listed Companies' Raised Fund" is to regulate in an all-round way the use and management of raised fund from IPO, rights issue, additional issue, corporate bonds issue and non-public securities issuance. The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) issues the "Administrative Rules of Listed Companies' Raised Fund" (the Rules) to regulate the use and management of listed companies' raised fund. By summarizing the relevant contents of the "Company Law", the "Securities Law", the "Stock Listing Rules" and other laws and regulations, the Rules regulate in an all-round way the use and management of raised fund from IPO, rights issue, additional issue, corporate bonds issue and non-public securities issuance. The Rules shall come into effect as of the issuance date, since which the use and management of listed companies' newly raised fund shall be in line with the Rules. Implement Special Accounts Deposit System of Raise Fund According to the Rules, a listed company's board of directors should establish an internal control system of the deposit, use and management of raised fund, specifying the deposit, use, change, supervision and accountability of raised fund. Meanwhile, the sponsor should perform sponsorship and implement continuous supervision over the management of listed companies' raised fund. The SSE is to implement special accounts deposit system of raised fund. Listed companies' raised fund should be put in special accounts established by the directorate for concentrated management. Also the listed company should sign a three-party supervision agreement on special accounts deposit of raised fund with the sponsor and the commercial bank where the raised fund is deposited. If a listed company draws more than RMB50 million in a lump sum or accumulatively within 12 months from the special account for raised fund, reaching 20% of raised fund's net value, the sponsor should be informed in time. The sponsor may go to the commercial bank and check the material of special accounts for raised fund at any time. Once discovering that the listed company and the commercial bank fail to implement the three-party supervision agreement, the sponsor should timely submit written report to the SSE. Overall Check of Fundraising & Investment Project Every Six Months One highlight of the Rules is the management and supervision of raised fund's use. According to the Rules, a listed company's board of directors should check the progress in the fundraising and investment project every six months and issue a "special report" on the deposit and use of raised fund. The sponsor should implement one spot investigation at least every six months on the deposit and use of the listed company's raised fund. By the end of each fiscal year, the sponsor should issue a special check report on the yearly deposit and use of the listed company's raised fund and submit it to the SSE when the listed company issues the annual report. The audit committee of the directorate, the board of supervisors or more than half of the independent directors may engage certified public accountants to carry out special audit on the deposit and use of the raised fund and issue a special audit report. The directorate should actively cooperate in the special audit, and the listed company should undertake the necessary fees. If the special audit report issued by the certified public accountants holds that there is violation of rules in the management of listed company's raised fund, the directorate should announce the violation of rules in the deposit and use of raised fund, generated or possible results and measures adopted or to be adopted. Specific Regulations Required for the Use of Raised Fund Regarding the use of raised fund, the Rules requires that listed companies should specify the application, approval jurisdiction at different levels, decision-making procedures, risk control measures and information disclosure procedures of raised fund's use. Listed companies should use the raised fund in accordance with the raised fund use plan promised in the issuance application documents. If abnormalities occur (for example, the market environment involved in the fundraising and investment project has significant changes; the fundraising and investment project has been postponed for more than 1 year; the completion time limit of the fundraising and investment plan has expired; the invested amount of the raised fund hasn't reached 50% of the relevant planned amount), listed companies should re-demonstrate the feasibility and estimated revenue of the fundraising and investment project before deciding whether to continue the project. Besides, listed companies should disclose the progress of the project, reasons of abnormalities and the adjusted project in the most recent periodical report. Except for financial enterprises, listed companies' fundraising and investment projects should not be financial investment such as holding tradable financial assets and marketable financial assets, lending loans or entrusted wealth management, and should not be direct or indirect investment in enterprises whose major business are securities trading. Besides, listed companies should not change the use of raised fund by pledge, entrusted loan or other means. Moreover, the raised fund should not be occupied or appropriated by related parties such as controlling shareholders or actual controllers for illicit interests. The listed companies, which plan to use the raised fund from the issue to replace self-raised fund invested in advance with definite amount, should implement the replacement after the accounting firms make special audit, the sponsors express their opinions, and the board of directors make discussion and approval. The listed companies' temporarily supplementing current capital with idle raised fund should be discussed and approved by their directorate meetings, and the independent directors, sponsors and boards of supervisors should express their opinions. If the idle raised fund supplementing current capital is above 10% of the total raised fund, it should be approved by the Shareholders' Meeting, and an online voting should be carried out. Meanwhile, the use of raised fund should not be altered in disguised ways, and the normal operation of raised fund investment plan should not be influenced. Single current capital supplementation should not be more than 50% of the net raised fund, and the time of single current capital supplementation should not be more than six months. The expired raised fund used for the previously temporary current capital supplementation should be returned. The Rules stresses that changes in the fundraising and investment projects of listed companies should be discussed and approved by their directorate meetings and Shareholders' Meetings. The changed fundraising and investment projects should be for their major businesses.

Warrants for Equity Division Reform Terminated
28 Jun 2008
Q & A -- an SSE official on warrants for equity division reform June 20 witnessed expiration of duration of Southern Airlines put warrant -- the last warrant on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) for equity division reform. Upon a recent interview, an SSE official made remarks on the market hotspot concerning the warrants for equity division reform. Twenty-one Warrants Issued in 3 Years Q: Would you please make an introduction of the warrants for equity division reform? A: According to the statistics, since the first warrant for equity division reform -- Baosteel warrant, was listed on the SSE in August 2005, the SSE's 17 listed companies including Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., Ltd., Wuhan Iron and Steel Company Limited, China Merchants Bank Co., Limited and China Southern Airlines Co., Ltd., successively took warrants as the consideration in equity division reform, and their major shareholders issued and listed 21 warrants on the SSE. Those companies paid warrants as consideration, mainly because that their holders of non-floating shares had difficulties in paying consideration by means of shares or cash. Therefore, it became a feasible plan for those companies to complete the equity division reform by freely providing holders of floating shares with warrants functioning in listing and tradability, hedging and risk-control. In other words, the warrants for equity division reform enriches consideration payment and plays a significant role in effectively solving problems of some listed companies (under special circumstances) in the equity division reform, thus promoting the overall equity division reform. To pay warrants as consideration in equity division reform resulted from the negotiation made by holders of non-floating shares and holders of floating shares at Shareholders' Meeting in line with relevant regulations of equity division reform. In addition, to list the warrants for equity division reform on the SSE was determined by warrant issuers. During the listing and trading of the warrants for equity division reform, the SSE not only provided listing services but also carried out supervision and management on warrant trading according to law and relevant business rules. Priorities Given to Investors' Legal Rights & Interests Q: What did the SSE focus on in the system design and business operation of the warrants for equity division reform? A: Warrant is a kind of high-risk securities derivative, while the warrant for equity division reform is of particularity. During the system preparation and business operation of the warrants for equity division reform, the SSE has always given priorities to risk prevention and control of the warrant market, maintenance of warrants' trading orders and protection of investors' legal rights and interests. Therefore, the SSE has carried out its work in the following three aspects: firstly, the SSE has actively explored and established a series of effective mechanisms of warrant market's risk control, such as the signing of the disclosure statement of warrants trading risk, the system of dynamic tracing of abnormal trading accounts and trading limit, the system of emergent suspension during business hours and the warrant creation system. Secondly, the SSE has reinforced the front line supervision over warrant trading, and timely investigated and punished abnormal trading. Thirdly, various measures have been effectively adopted to integrate market resources and widely carry out the warrant investment education and risk alerts. In view of the practice, a small number of warrants had, upon their listing, experienced great price fluctuations; worse still, serious speculation of some warrants occurred. However, generally speaking, implementation of the above systems and related measures has exerted a positive influence on and made fruitful achievements in resolving market risks, safeguarding normal trading order and protecting investors' legal rights and interests. Sixteen Trading Suspensions in Succession Q: Please introduce the SSE's specific measures in warrant trading risk disclosure, enhancement of market supervision and implementation of investors' education. A: Regarding the risk disclosure of warrant trading, the SSE has strictly implemented the signing system of warrants trading risk disclosure statement and relevant requirements. It has issued 3 notices in succession to member companies, requiring them to urge investors to sign risk disclosure statement before participating in warrant trading, so as to inform them of the characteristics and investment risks of warrant products in advance. To ensure the implementation of this system, we have carried out necessary check and supervision on the implementation of the signing system of warrants trading risk disclosure statement. Besides, the SSE has also required all member units and their business branches to well educate key investors about the risks and release risk alert on the last trading day. In terms of strengthening market supervision, the SSE has, according to features of warrant trading, established pertinent real-time supervision indicators and carried out one-on-one supervision over warrant trading. In case of obviously abnormal warrant trading prices, the SSE has, in accordance with relevant rules, implemented trading suspension, given warnings to illegal trading and cautioned of market risks. In addition, the SSE has established a "list of accounts under strict surveillance", laying emphasis on supervision over those investors' abnormal trading. The SSE has timely cautioned and inquired about investors with abnormal trading, and implemented trading limit to the verified serious abnormal trading.   According to statistics, since listing of the warrant products, the SSE has in total implemented 16 trading suspensions and 217 investigations on abnormal trading, covering 48 business branches. It has also issued 90 caution letters, letters of supervision enquiry and surveillance attention letters. Besides, 223 abnormal accounts have been restricted from trading. As for investors' education, the SSE has established the "Warrant Service Center" on its external website, providing warrant ABCs, warrant trading system, warrant trading data and other material for investors. It has repeatedly printed the "Warrant Knowledge Q&A", the "Warrant Investment and Risk Education" and other educational brochures, which have been sent out to business departments around the country as reference for investors for free. Moreover, it has mobilized member companies, warrant primary dealers and creators to establish the education column for warrant investors in newspapers. More than 100 articles of investors' education have been published. Two Types of Supply/Demand Balance Mechanism Q: Warrant creation is an important system in warrant business, yet some investors have raised different opinions during its implementation. Could you briefly introduce the reasons for establishing warrant creation mechanism and its business mode? A: On overseas mature warrant market, a marketization mechanism for supply and demand balance is prevailing, to prevent the warrant from becoming a mere speculation tool due to the serious deviation of a warrant's trading price from its theoretical value. There are two types of mechanism for supply and demand balance: continuous offering and free issuance. The continuous offering mechanism means the original issuer continues to offer warrants that have been issued, while the provisions for the newly-issued warrants and the old ones are the same. Free issuance mechanism means one or more issuers could issue different warrants based on the same underlying securities. As we all know, as the consideration paid by major shareholders of non-floating shares to holders of floating shares, warrants, emerging with the equity division reform, cannot be continuously issued by major shareholders. Also the system of covered warrants' free issuance based on underlying stocks hasn't been established yet. Meanwhile, with the few number of warrants for equity division reform and the fixed scale of each warrant, if there is no mechanism for supply and demand balance, those warrants are liable to become the target of serious speculation under certain conditions. Therefore, based on the general principle of warrants, the SSE has introduced in the system design the marketization mechanism for supply and demand balance -- the creation mechanism by learning from similar methods of mature markets and combining the operation features of the warrants for equity division reform. The mechanism allows innovation pilot securities dealers to create warrants with costs based on their own judgment of the market. Though the warrant creation system is somewhat different from mechanisms of continuous offering and free insurance in form, they are generally consistent in basic principle and system function, that is, to increase the supply of warrants and balance the supply in line with certain procedures and requirements. The creation is operated under the basic mode as follows: eligible institutions can create and sell warrants on the market to increase the warrant supply according to certain procedures and requirements when the price is overvalued. They can also repurchase and cancel warrant to release collateral for performance when the warrant price is reasonable. When the warrants are created, creators must, according to requirements and the 100% proportion, submit stocks (call warrants) or cash (put warrants) in full amount as performance bond, and deposit them in designated accounts for freezing. Four Basic Characteristics of the System Implementation Q: What are basic characteristics of the arrangement and implementation of the warrant creation system? A: The SSE sticks to the principle of openness, transparency, regularity and feasibility in warrant creation whose relevant system design and implementation are characterized by these four basic points: Firstly, warrant creation is a pre-designed public system arrangement. According to regulations in the "SSE Provisional Measures on Warrant Business Administration" formulated and approved according to legal procedures, the creation of SSE-listed warrants by eligible institutions leaves creation mechanism open for the system. The specific measures are subject to further notice. The "Notice of Relevant Issues concerning Securities Companies' Creation of Wuhan Steel Warrants" (Notice), issued by the SSE thereafter, prescribed items including creators' qualifications, procedures and requirements. In other follow-up warrant creations, the SSE, which respectively released notices before the warrant's listing, stipulated that the securities companies with creation qualification can create warrant with reference to the relevant regulations and requirements of the Notice. Secondly, related parties and investors know the creation of special warrant in advance. As to the creatable warrant, the prospectus of equity division reform and warrant listing announcements formed in line with certain procedures involve the creation issues after the warrant listing. This is particularly the case in reminding the market and investors that, after warrant listing, eligible institutions can implement creation according to the stock exchanges' relevant regulations and indicate the creations' impact on the warrant trading price. Information about creators after warrant creation is accessible at the SSE's external website before trading. Beside, before the created warrant can be traded, creators must announce relevant information about the warrant creation to the market through the designated media for securities information disclosure. Thirdly, warrant creation is a market-oriented operational mechanism. On the one hand, according to relevant regulations, it is the creators that decide whether to create warrants and the creations' time and quantity based on the self-reality and market conditions. On the other hand, the success of creation application mainly relies on whether the creator provides collateral for performance according to the requirements. Besides, the cancellation of the warrant is generally decided and implemented by the creator based on the market conditions together with other comprehensive factors. Fourthly, necessary qualification management shall be applied to warrant creation. According to relevant regulations of creation system, only 20-odd securities companies with innovation pilot qualification awarded by the Securities Association of China have creators' qualification. The implementation of the creators' qualification management is mainly based on these three considerations. Firstly, on the mature warrant market like Hong Kong market, the implementation of balancing mechanism including warrant free issuance and continuous offering proposes a high qualification demand, and common investors can only trade on the secondary market. Secondly, warrant creation with the function of balancing supply and demand needs to provide 100% performance bond, which is highly demanding on the part of creator's performance capability, risk control ability and credit level. However, the innovative securities companies examined and accredited by the Securities Association of China in line with strict standards have enough capital and strong risk management ability. Thirdly, common investors, illiterate of risk control and management ability related to the warrant creation, are liable to lose control once the qualification management is lifted. Establishing A Public Access Group for Complaint Letters and Calls Q: What specific work has the SSE done in handling the complaint letters and calls by a small number of investors who suffered loss on the warrant trading? A: Due to warrant's high risk, some investors can hardly avoid losses in the trading. A small number of investors complain on the phone or by letters and visits to the SSE and relevant institutions about the warrant system design, warrant creation, warrant supervision and information disclosure. The SSE has paid much attention to the complaints by organizing relevant departments to establish a public access group on the basis of the previous hotline and letter visits reception mechanism. In the public access reception work, we stick to the principle of eliminating misunderstanding, pacifying investors' emotions, and resolving contradictions for the stability of the securities market. We, who understand the feelings of money-losing warrant investors, patiently answer their questions, earnestly study their suggestions and state views on relevant appeal. Meanwhile, we warded off escalation of contradictions by persuading some "troubled visitors" or "persistent visitors" to abide by the law in their exercise of public access to complaint letters and calls. Four Understandings of the Warrant Market's Development Q: With the termination of the SSE's warrants for equity division, what inspirations did the nearly 3 years' market practice bring to us? A: The warrant for equity division reform is the creation of reform and innovation on the emerging and transitional market under the special background of the equity division reform. The whole market including the SSE has experienced the rehearsal and practice of the securities derivatives market in the development of warrant market. And we will make an earnest and objective summary. Through the practice of the warrants for equity division reform market, we have come to these basic understandings as follows: Firstly, steadily developing true and mature securities derivatives is an objective requirement of the function improvement and healthy development promotion of China's capital market. Secondly, effective control and management of high risks in the securities derivatives is the core of relevant system design and market supervision. Thirdly, in developing the securities derivatives, priority should be given to investors' education and risk alert, the breed of rational and eligible investors and cultivation of the risk consciousness and investment concept of "buyers assume the liabilities". Fourthly, nothing is smooth in its development, and it is especially the case with the development and innovation of the securities derivatives market. Thus, the understanding, participation, tolerance and support from all market parties are indispensable external conditions for the development and innovation of the securities derivatives market. In the future, the SSE will, continuously based on the reality and development requirements of China's capital market, effectively play its functions and advantages to promote sound innovation of the securities derivatives and the development of the capital market.

Zhou: Enrich M & A Payment Methods
28 Jun 2008
Vice President Zhou Qinye of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) said at the 2008 (6th) China M&A Annual Conference yesterday that merger and acquisition (M&A) was changing China's securities market in two ways. M&A upgraded listed companies' quality and structure. Meanwhile, he suggested that M&A could be carried out by allowing listed companies to issue bonds to the third party or by other securities means at ripe time, so as to enrich payment methods of M&A. According to Zhou, since the advent of China's capital market, more than 300 listed companies have seen controlling right changes. M&A has promoted the operation capability of listed companies. As a result, some enterprises have entered the capital market by backdoor listing, while others have avoided delisting. It is learned that the China Securities Regulatory Commission has received more than 300 M&A applications in 2007, some of which were approved, leading to RMB73.9 billion assets injection, RMB770 billion increased market capitalization and these companies' increased earnings per share by 75%. According to Zhou, "M&A also improved the structure of China's listed companies." Taking the SSE for example, Zhou said, 863 listed companies' assets scales have increased by 30% every year. At present, 2 SSE-listed companies have their market capitalization above RMB1 trillion, 24 above RMB100 billion and 133 above RMB10 billion. The 159 listed companies' market capitalization (all exceeding RMB10 billion) account for 86% of SSE's total market capitalization, with their trading covering 56.3% of the total. Market concentration can only be achieved by M&A. Zhou summarized that the recent M&A of listed companies took on two main characteristics. Firstly, industry M&A is budding. As China entered the phase of industry integration, listed companies started participating in industry M&A based on capital operation, offering new solutions to diseconomies of scale, divided market, regional blockage and etc. With the world economic integration and RMB appreciation expectations, overseas capital's participation in China's industry merger and acquisition is not rare. Secondly, overall listing becomes the hotspot at this stage. Among various cases of overall listing, two modes are worthy of attention. One is to realize overall listing by targeted additional issuance and acquisition of major shareholders' assets, while the other is by merger through equity swap. At the end of his speech, Zhou expressed his view on the prospect of M&A market. According to him, within the next three years, listed companies shall have completed overall listing on the whole, eliminating the limitations of part listing due to problems left over by history.

SSE to Regulate Enterprise Bonds' Registration, Custody and Settlement
13 Jun 2008
The "Notice of Issuance, Registration, Custody, Trading, Settlement and Charges of Bonds Issued with the Approval of Relevant Authorities under the State Council and Registered in Securities Accounts" (the Notice), issued recently by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd., stipulates that the listing, custody, trading, settlement, payment of principal and interest and charges of bonds, which are issued with the approval of relevant authorities under the State Council and registered in securities accounts, should be implemented according to the rules on corporate bonds issued with the approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission. According to the Notice, regarding the bonds issued with the approval of relevant authorities under the State Council and registered in securities accounts, if they are issued through SSE's system, the issuance and registration should be conducted according to the relevant rules on corporate bonds; otherwise, the registration should be processed in a way filed by the issuer. The Notice also stipulates that the spot trading of such bonds shall be executed simultaneously through the SSE auction trading system and on the comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities and same security codes and ticker symbols shall be adopted. Meanwhile, orders for such trading shall be placed through the securities accounts and executed at net price and settled at full price. In addition, if qualified, such bonds are allowed to participate in new general collateral repos, with requirements for repo qualification and conversion ratio pursuant to the current rules on corporate bonds.

Notice of the Issuance, Registration, Custody, Trading, Settlement and Charges of Bonds Issued with the Approval of Relevant Authorities under the State Council and Registered in Securities Accounts
13 Jun 2008
All members, settlement participants and relevant units: To expand the corporate bonds market and to synchronize the bonds market development, and in line with the "SSE Corporate Bonds Listing Rules", the "China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd.'s Detailed Rules on Registration, Custody and Settlement of Bonds" and relevant rules, the issuance, registration, custody, trading, settlement, and charges of bonds, which are issued with the approval of relevant authorities under the State Council and registered in securities accounts, are announced as follows: 1. Regarding the bonds issued with the approval of relevant authorities under the State Council and registered in securities accounts, the listing, custody, trading, settlement, payment of principal and interest and charges should be implemented according to the rules on corporate bonds issued with the approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission. If they are issued through the SSE system, the issuance and registration should be conducted according to the relevant rules on corporate bonds; otherwise, the registration should be processed in a way filed by the issuer. 2. The spot trading of such bonds shall be executed simultaneously through the SSE auction trading system and on the comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities, and same stock code and ticker symbol shall be adopted. 3. Orders for such trading shall be placed through the securities accounts and executed at net price and settled at full price. 4. If qualified, such bonds are allowed to participate in new general collateral repos, with requirements for repo qualification and conversion ratio pursuant to the current rules on corporate bonds. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Depository & Clearing Corp., Ltd. June 10, 2008

SSE Promotes Members' Client Management
12 Jun 2008
Members are urged to strengthen understanding and implementation of the "Detailed Rules on Members' Management of Clients' Securities Trading" and the "Guidelines of Real-time Supervision over SSE Securities Abnormal Trading". The recent promulgation of the "Detailed Rules on Members' Management of Clients' Securities Trading" and the "Guidelines of Real-time Supervision over SSE Securities Abnormal Trading" (the Two Rules) by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) aimed at promoting members' client management, strengthening supervision over abnormal securities fluctuation and trading, and exercising members' self-regulation. The "Notice of Promoting Members' Implementation of the Two Rules" (the Notice), issued today by the SSE to all members, specified the requirements in the study, improvement and implementation of the supplementary systems. Members are given a three-month deadline for rationalization before an SSE check on the implementation of the Two Rules. According to an SSE official, as an important measure to implement the "Rules on Supervision over Securities Companies" and the "Rules on Risk Disposal of Securities Companies", the Two Rules also detailed the implementation of the SSE's "Member Management Rules" and "Trading Rules". In the spirit of "extending the frontier of self-regulation", the Two Rules mainly targeted at strengthening members' management of clients' securities trading and intensifying members' investors education. The Two Rules required members to improve orientation of market rules, understand clients better, intensify risk caution, discover and stop abnormal trading, and cooperate in self-regulation. Meanwhile, the Two Rules also defined the measures the SSE should take in case of abnormal securities price fluctuation or abnormal trading. To help clients better interpret the Two Rules, the SSE organized online video training. Members and departments of brokerage, proprietary trading, assets management and compliance management related with securities trading should timely organize relevant personnel to watch the video for a thorough knowledge of the systems and measures of the Two Rules. According to the requirements of the Two Rules, the Notice defines the measures and systems yet to be established and perfected soon by members, including "One System" and "Five Rules". The "One System" refers to the securities trading supervision system, while the "Five Rules" are rules of securities trading supervision, client's trading dispute settlement, self-regulation, investors education and clients classification. The SSE official stresses that the target is not to establish systems and rules but to fully utilize the system in discovering client's abnormal trading and to implement the management requirements of the rules. Therefore, members are required to rationalize at three-month notice since the issuance of the Notice, prior to an inspection by the SSE. For members that outperform others in implementing the Two Rules, the SSE will submit suggestion letters on self-regulatory supervision to the China Securities Regulatory Commission for raising their classification rating scores. Likewise, the SSE will, according to the "Member Management Rules", take relevant regulatory measures or disciplinary punishment on members with poor performance.

SSE: Market Supervision over Southern Airline Warrant Intensified
06 Jun 2008
Yesterday afternoon, trading of Southern Airlines JTP1 put warrant was again suspended by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) due to abnormal trading. Till now, the SSE has repeatedly imposed trading suspension on this warrant for the same reason to curb excessive speculation. According to the SSE, with the upcoming expiry day of Southern Airline JPT1 put warrant, trading supervision will be further strengthened. Besides, strict investigation will be imposed on big investors who ignore warnings and continued excessive speculation. Frequent Speculation of Big Investors Repeated Abnormal Trading of Southern Airlines JTP1 The Shanghai Securities News learned that, through trading supervision, the SSE had recently discovered frequent speculation of big investors by all kinds of information, resulting in repeated abnormal trading of Southern Airline JPT1. Due to the excessive "fever" of speculative funds on the warrant, many investors lacking in necessary warrant knowledge but depending on their luck blindly rushed into the warrant trading when it had already been deeply out-of-the-money and most institutional investors had "left the floor", expecting huge benefit out of it. However, "playing with fire" might cause them to lose all. Safeguard Conclusion of Southern Airline JTP1 SSE Prevent Risk by Various Measures Regarding the above-mentioned situation, the SSE has taken various supervision measures in the past one month to safeguard the smooth conclusion of Southern Airline JPT1. By such measures as strengthening trading supervision, intensifying risk alert and requiring securities dealers to improve client management and organize investors' education, the SSE aims to prevent possible market risks caused by Southern Airline JPT1 put warrant. Firstly, relevant rules and regulations should be improved, and special trading suspension should be conducted to curb excessive speculation. The recent "Guidelines of Real-time Supervision over SSE Securities Abnormal Trading" issued by the SSE defines the conditions of warrant trading suspension: "within two months before the expiration day, the out-of-the-money warrant whose market price is much higher than theoretical price and whose previous closing price is over RMB0.100 (inclusive), with trading prices of stocks firstly increasing by over 20% and accumulatively increasing by over 50% compared to its opening price on the very day; within the two months before the expiration day, the out-of-the-money warrant whose market price is much higher than theoretical price and whose previous closing price is below RMB0.100 (exclusive), with trading prices of stocks firstly increasing by over 50% and accumulatively increasing by over 80% compared to its opening prices on the very day". Meanwhile, the Guidelines defines the implementation way: "the first trading suspension sustains 60 minutes; while the second trading suspension sustains to the last 5 minutes before closing." According to the Guidelines, the SSE successively carried out four special trading suspensions during business hours to alert risks and cool the market on May 23, May 27, May 30 and June 2, respectively. Secondly, the SSE requires members to earnestly fulfill their responsibilities of customer management to improve customer risk alert and customer management. Specifically, the first is to reinforce the punishment to business departments and accounts violating regulations. The second is to strengthen customer management of warrant trading. Given the conditions of Southern Airlines warrant trading, much stress should be attached to risk alert of abnormal trading clients, and investor education on Southern Airlines warrants should be effectively enhanced to prevent the warrant trading risk. The third is to suggest establishing securities dealers to make comprehensive evaluation to the current risk and cancel it at a proper time. It is learnt that, the SSE has imposed warrant brokerage suspension on business departments of some securities dealers with inadequate management. Thirdly, to strengthen market supervision, especially in real-time supervision over trading and account management. The SSE has, according to features of warrants, established a series of real-time supervision indicators. Moreover, a special group composed of staff specializing in real-time supervision, historical analysis, inspection and technical support has been formed to carry out one-on-one supervision over warrant trading. For example, the SSE has made a "list of accounts under strict surveillance", in which the 50 active accounts have been listed and brought into real-time supervision system as main targets. As for accounts triggering real-time alarm, the SSE will conduct timely supervision and investigation including reviewing account information, phone-call warning, written warning, on-the-spot probe, and etc. Meanwhile, the SSE has adopted measures of trading restriction in accounts of 10 over-speculating warrant investors who have recently, by abusing intra-day trading mechanism excessively, affected the normal trading order severely and influenced the closing price greatly by large-volume and continuous trading. According to an SSE official, in the future, the SSE will not exclude the possibility of restricting trading of regulation-breaking accounts during trading hours. Fourthly, to earnestly educate investors in various ways. The SSE has published "Risk Alert on Last trading Date of Southern Airlines Warrant" on its website homepage and on the front pages of 3 leading securities media. Meanwhile, the SSE is planning to carry out various investor education activities in a multi-channel way through the SSE's investor education website. Excessive Warrant Scalper to be investigated Member Units Required to Coordinate & Supervise While strengthening market surveillance, the SSE also reinforces disclosure of risks in warrant trading, mainly including: firstly, encourage members to implement risk disclosure. The SSE successively released special notices to require all member units and their business branches to well educate investors about the full disclosure of risks and to pay special attention to clients holding warrants with high purchasing costs. Secondly, actively coordinate market data providers to add warrant risk disclosure in the market quotes software. The SSE requires all market quotes software providers to add warrant investors education information as well as risk disclosure information to warrants' F10 information. Thirdly, reinforce risk disclosure of the last trading day and issue a risk alert in view of warrants expiration. When the last trading day is approaching, the SSE shall, together with warrants issuers, sponsors, primary dealers and all members, release risk disclosure of the last trading day and "count-down" to the warrants expiration in newspapers and on the SSE website and at all business branches. According to the SSE officials, with upcoming expiration of Southern Airline JPT1 put warrant, the SSE will further reinforce relevant trading surveillance. Apart from the more frequent oral or written warnings, the SSE will cooperate with related Market Surveillance Bureaus in interviews and on-the-spot investigation of those investors who carry out excessive warrant speculation and in on-the-spot inspection on client management of the business branches where those investors operate. Meanwhile, the SSE will send attention list of warrant trading through Member Section, requiring members to take effective measures and cooperate with surveillance. Those big investors who ignore warnings and continue to carry out excessive speculation will receive strict sanction from the SSE.

Notification of "Corporate Governance Sector" New Candidates
05 Jun 2008
To perfect China's listed companies' governance mechanism and long-term healthy development of the capital market, China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI), supported by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), officially launched a corporate governance sector in January 2008. According to the "Appraisal Measures of SSE Corporate Governance Sector", after the completion of annual reports disclosure, the CSI adjusted the corporate governance sector and received voluntary application from new companies on the basis of the original 199 companies. By the end of May 2008, the CSI had received valid application materials from 44 companies. It hereby publicizes these companies for the public to review their governance and put forward constructive suggestions or comments. Please submit the suggestions or comments in written form or by email to the CSI before June 11, 2008. Contact methods: Fax: 8621—68829830 Email: zhliu@sse.com.cn Add: Liu Zhenhua, 13/F, South Tower, Shanghai Stock Exchange Building, 528 South Pudong Road, Shanghai Postcode: 200120 China Securities Index Co., Ltd. June 5, 2008

SSE 180, 50 Indices, SHSE-SZSE300 Index, CSI100 Adjust Constituents
04 Jun 2008
According to the index construction rule and upon examination by the committee of index experts, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) has recently announced to adjust the constituents of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index. Besides, the CSI also announced to adjust the constituents of the Shanghai Shenzhen 300 Index (SHSE-SZSE300 Index), China Securities 100 Index (CSI100), China Securities 500 Index (CSI500) and CSI Hong Kong 100 Index (CSI HK 100). The adjustment will come into effect on the first trading day of July 2008. In the adjustment, 18 stocks of the SSE 180 Index will be replaced through adding China Railway Group Limited (China Railway) and China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co.，Ltd. (CPIC), etc. and deleting Gem--Year Industrial Co., Ltd. and Yingkou Port Liability Co., Ltd., etc. 5 stocks of the SSE 50 Index will be replaced through adding China Railway and China Southern Airlines Company Limited, etc. and deleting Huaneng Power International, Inc. and Tsinghua Tongfang Co., Ltd., etc. The SSE 180 Financial Index will add 2 stocks, Bank of Beijing Co., Ltd. and CPIC. 50 stocks will be added to the SSE Medium Enterprise Composite Index, including Chongqing Road & Bridge Co., Ltd. and Sinolink Securities Co., Ltd., and 44 stocks will be deleted, including Fujian Expressway Development Company Limited and Zhejiang Guangsha Co., Ltd.. 19 stocks of the SHSE-SZSE300 Index will be replaced through adding CPIC and China Railway, etc and deleting Jiangling Motors Co., Ltd. and Shanghai Qiangsheng Holding Co., Ltd., etc. 10 stocks of the CSI100 Index will be replaced through adding CPIC and China Coal Energy Company Limited, etc. and deleting Tianjin FAW XIALI Motor Co., Ltd. and Shenzhen Yantian Port Holdings Co., Ltd., etc.. 50 stocks of the CSI 500 Index will be replaced through adding Nanjing Xingang High-Tech Co., Ltd. and Beijing Hualian Hypermarket Co., Ltd., etc. and deleting Dalian Jinniu Co., Ltd. and Zhejiang Southeast Spaceframe Co., Ltd., etc. 7 stocks of the CSI HK 100 Index will be replaced through adding Alibaba.com Limited and Sino－Ocean Land Holdings Limited, etc. and deleting Wheelock and Company Limited and Guoco Group Limited, etc.. Meanwhile, constituents of China Securities 200 Index, China Securities 700 Index, China Securities 800 Index and CSI 300 Sector Index will also be adjusted accordingly. For specific lists, please refer to the announcements of the SSE and the CSI or visit the websites of the SSE (www.sse.com.cn), the SZSE (www.szse.cn) and the CSI (www.csindex.com.cn). The adjustment will enhance the indices' vitality and representation. Statistics show that upon completion of this change, the total market capitalization of the SHSE-SZSE300 Index will cover 78.72% of the total on the SSE and the SZSE, and 67.64% of its floating market capitalization. The total market capitalization and the floating capitalization coverage of the CSI100 will reach 65.99% and 48.32%, respectively. The total market capitalization of the SSE 180 Index will cover 81.12% of the total on the SSE, and its floating capitalization 70.16%. The total market capitalization of the SSE 50 Index will cover 66.44% of the total, and its floating capitalization 50.69%. The 2007 annual reports show that the net profits of the constituents of the SHSE-SZSE300 Index and the CSI100 are RMB855.7 billion and RMB764.9 billion, accounting for 90.22% and 80.66% of the total net profit of listed companies on the SSE and SZSE, respectively. The weighted average earnings per share of constituents of the SHSE-SZSE300 Index and the CSI 100 are RMB0.4612 and RMB0.4571, respectively, or 9.39% and 8.42% higher, respectively, than the average level of the listed companies on the SSE and SZSE. The net profits of the constituents of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index are RMB744.5 billion and RMB660.4 billion, respectively, accounting for 90.42% and 80.20%, respectively, of the total net profit of listed companies on the SSE. The weighted average earnings per share of the constituents of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index are RMB0.4399 and RMB0.4385, respectively, or 4.81% and 4.48% higher, respectively, than the average level of the listed companies on the SSE. In the most recent year, the dividend payment of the SHSE-SZSE300 Index and the CSI100 have reached a total of RMB122.814 billion and RMB98.136 billion, respectively, accounting for 87.69% and 70.07% of the total dividend payment of the A-share listed companies on the SSE and the SZSE. The dividend payment of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index have reached a total of RMB95.241 billion and RMB74.717 billion, respectively, accounting for 84.84% and 66.56% of the total dividend payment of the A-share listed companies on the SSE. After the adjustment, price-earnings ratios of the SHSE-SZSE300 Index and the CSI100 are 26.45 and 25.81, respectively, if calculated according to the closing prices on June 3, 2008, or 9.04% and 11.24% lower, respectively, than the average market level on the SSE and SZSE. Price-earnings ratios of the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index are 26.13 and 25.05, respectively, or 6.84% and 10.70% lower, respectively, than the average market level on the SSE.

SSE to Build Investor Education Information Resources Platform
04 Jun 2008
A recent notice issued by the Shanghai Securities Exchange (SSE) requires member units to submit relevant plan of and progress in investor education, to urge them to enhance investor education and build a related information platform. The SSE plans to collect predictions and contents concerning investor education submitted by the member units, and publish them on the to-be-launched "SSE Investor Orientation Website", thus facilitating investors to obtain the latest education information. It is learnt that the SSE' move aims to implement the "Rules on Supervision over Securities Companies" and the "Detailed Rules on Members' Management of Clients' Securities Trading" promulgated by the CSRC and the SSE, respectively. The notice requires member units to submit regular conclusion report on the progress in the investor education, and the report will be published on the website. Investors can then supervise through the complaint mailbox on the website. As to the member units with inadequate investor education and too many clients' complaints, the SSE plans to disclose them on the media and report to the regulatory authorities. It is learnt that, based on building the network platform of investor education, the SSE also plans to elect "My Favorite Investor Education Brand" together with several medium and strengthen the investors education.

Summary of 2007 Annual Reports
02 Jun 2008
Recently, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has completed the after-action check on the listed companies' 2007 annual reports on the whole. By April 30, 2008, except for Shandong Jiufa Edible Fungus Co., Ltd. (Shandong Jiufa), all the remaining 862 SSE-listed companies had disclosed their 2007 annual reports in designated newspapers and on designated websites. According to the annual reports, overall performance of the listed companies sees a sharp year-on-year increase of 47.5%, following the good trend of 2006; the weighted earning per share of companies who have disclosed their annual reports has reached at a record high of RMB0.42. In the after-action check, the SSE's relevant departments have sent a total of 340 letters of opinions on after-action check, requiring the listed companies to make explanations on the problems in the annual reports. A total of 165 companies have published the supplementary or modification announcements. The 2007 annual reports show positive changes in corporate governance and information disclosure of the SSE-listed companies. The amount and ratio of non-standard audit opinion have remarkably dropped. Besides, up to 139 companies have voluntarily disclosed self-evaluation reports on internal control and the opinions of auditing institutions, fourfold as many as that of last year, making initial achievements of listed companies' internal control. Most companies have strictly implemented the new accounting standards. As a result, the equity of the listed companies' shareholders at the beginning of the reporting period only increases by about 9% in the adjustment, and the "gains or losses from change in fair value" in 2007 income statements accounts for only 2.6% of total annual net profit of listed companies, realizing a smooth transition to the new accounting standards. In addition, more than 90% companies have established the audit committee, and the remuneration and assessment committee, well performing their duties and played their roles. In the after-action check, the SSE laid emphasis on strict examination on the list companies' implementation of relevant regulations and requirements of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and relevant authorities, urging the companies with non-standard information disclosure and incomplete internal control system to rectify by sending letters to and interviewing with them. In terms of the major omissions and errors discovered in the check, listed companies are required to publish supplementary or modification announcements in time. In the after-action check, the SSE has completed after-action check on annual reports of 92 ST or *ST companies on the whole, accepting listing resumption materials of 9 companies under listing suspension and issuing letters of check opinions. Besides, the SSE removed special treatment on 16 ST or *ST companies that gained profits and resumed normal major business in their 2007 annual reports, and removed risk alert of delisting on 14 *ST companies that gained profits through extraordinary profit and loss but still hasn't resumed normal major business in 2007. Upon after-action check, the SSE found that the following problems still exist in corporate governance and information disclosure of listed companies: 1. Repeated non-standard performance predictions still exist. Some companies, which failed to publish timely relevant announcement before the end of January, or omitted disclosure or predicted inconsistently, have misled the market and investors; 2. Some companies are still burdened with non-operationally occupied capital of listed companies. After two years' centralized rectification, most companies' major shareholders have repaid the occupied capital in time, though very few companies still postpone repayment for a long term due to various historical reasons. For example, the major shareholder of Hubei Mailyard Share Co., Ltd. occupied a total of RMB1.18 billion, and only repaid RMB1,054,000 in 2007. Due to issues including attribute change procedures for the land use right evaluated at RMB1.18 billion, the plan of repaying the debt with the land use right failed within the promised period. Very few companies have newly-additional capital occupation. Besides, capital occupation during the period and settlement at the end of the period occur in some companies; 3. The unevenness of certified public accountants' professional levels, differences in their evaluation criteria and inappropriate application of some non-standard audit opinions have, to some extent, lowered the validity of the audit reports. As for qualified opinions, some accountants only talk about minor issues instead of major ones or use ambiguous expressions; they just issue qualified opinions with the reason of limitation of the audit scope and fail to explain relevant issues' influence on accounting statements as required by auditing standards; 4. Non-uniform disclosure of remuneration for directors, supervisors and senior management makes it difficult for investors to analyze and compare; 5. Some companies fail to disclose information about actual controllers in accordance with the "Rule on 2007 Annual Reports", making it difficult for investors to get information about listed companies' actual controllers and control structures; 6. The disclosure of independent directors' duty performances is rough and formalistic. All this makes it hard to reflect independent directors' roles fully; and 7. Self-evaluation reports on internal control made by board of directors are long in contents and different in formats, and it is difficult for investors to make horizontal comparison, leading to low-efficiency of information. As for the problems discovered in after-action check on the annual reports, the SSE plans, according to relevant regulations of the "SSE Stock Listing Rules", to publicly criticize some companies including Shandong Jiufa and their related persons in charge; up to now, seven companies have received criticism notices among listed companies and twenty eight companies have received surveillance attention. To those companies and persons in charge that have severely violated listing rules and annual report rules, the SSE will take more punishment measures.

SSE Market Closure Schedule for Dragon Boat Festival
02 Jun 2008
All member units, The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the market closure schedule for the 2008 Dragon Boat Festival according to the "SSE Holiday Schedule for 2008" (Shang Zheng Jiao Zi [2007] No.18). The SSE will close from June 7 (Saturday) to June 9, 2008 (Monday) and open for trading on June 10, 2008 (Tuesday). Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange June 2, 2008

XNA, SSE Framework Agreement Inked
31 May 2008
With the "XNA, SSE Framework Agreement on All-round Cooperation" signed by the Xinhua News Agency (XNA) and the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) in Beijing on May 30, 2008, the SSE will closely cooperate with the XNA in an all-round way in such fields as financial information service. Attending the signing ceremony were XNA Vice President Lu Wei and SSE Governor Geng Liang. According to the agreement, the two parties will build a mechanism of news collection and publication for in-depth cooperation in fields of commercial data and information products; through the channels and platforms including the "Xinhua 08", a comprehensive financial information service system independently developed by the XNA,  popularize the important information data on the Shanghai securities market to cultivate the market, educate the investors and make in-depth information research. Besides, the SSE will also work with the XNA in information technology and talent exchange. Both sides hold that the cooperation will give China more rights to say and fix price, and improve the information transparency of China's capital market for a bigger and better securities market.

Restructuring Scheme Needed in Trading Suspension Application
29 May 2008
SSE's New Rules on Significant Asset Restructuring The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) issued new rules on the procedures for significant asset restructuring of listed companies. Yesterday, the SSE Listed Company Department issued the "Memorandum of Information Disclosure of Significant Asset Restructuring of Listed Companies" (Memo) No.3 -- "General Statement of Significant Asset Restructuring Scheme" (General Statement) to the listed companies. If any listed company applies for continuous trading suspension to the Listed Company Department due to significant asset restructuring, it should fill in and submit the "General Statement" together with the trading suspension application. The "General Statement of Restructuring Scheme" specifically includes the type and standard of significant asset restructuring, the relationship between the listed company and its trading counterpart, whether the restructuring will lead to the change of the company's actual controller, as well as the estimated trading amount of the assets restructured into the listed company and the listed company's payment method. Most prominently, the listed company should fill in the estimated time of the directorate's review on the restructuring scheme. In addition, relevant companies should make explanations on issues such as: whether the price fluctuation of their shares before the trading suspension application conforms to the standard in Article 5 of the "Notice of Regulating Information Disclosure of Listed Companies and Acts of All Parties concerned", whether the listed company has been put on record for investigation by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, with the case unsettled yet, and whether the significant asset restructuring involves innovative and unprecedented issues. According to an official of the SSE Listed Company Department, this act aims to avoid random trading suspension by promoting the listed companies to work out initial schemes and schedules when applying for continuous trading suspension. However, in case that a restructuring scheme is extremely important and needs to be reported to the State Council for approval in principle, the Memo allows that relevant companies apply to the Listed Company Department for proper postponement of trading suspension before the expiration of the promised suspension period as well as disclose relevant circumstances in the progress announcements.

SSE, CSI Update Industry Classification of Listed Companies
28 May 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently published the adjusted industry classification of A-share listed companies on the SSE and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange according to the annual reports of 2007. The adjustment involves 102 A-share listed companies, among which 63 companies have gone through adjustment of primary industry classification. Such adjustment helps to better reflect the listed companies' industry structures and enhance the investment research for market participants. Moreover, it facilitates investors' tracing and studying of such indices as the SSE 180 Index and the SHSE-SZSE300 Index. Based on Chinese listed companies' business activities, the industry classification was finalized by referring to the current international industry classification standard. For the methodology and results of industry classification, please refer to the SSE website (www.sse.com.cn) or the CSI website (www.csindex.com.cn). The adjustment will take effect on July 1, 2008.

SSE's Block Trading Market Conducts Special Floor Business
28 May 2008
Issuance and Implementation of "Guidelines for Special Floor Business of Block Trading System (Trial)" Introducing functions of public offering and allotment Bringing in trading methods including negotiation, inquiry and bidding Implementing qualification management and admittance system and beginning to accept qualification applications of eligible investors The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) issued and implemented "Guidelines for Special Floor Business on Block Trading System (Trial)" today to conduct special floor business on its block trading system. Thus, the SSE officially introduces functions of public offering and allotment as well as trading methods including negotiation, inquiry and bidding. According to the analysts, as an efficient expansion of market functions, the special floor business provides a more flexible trading method and more efficient price range for shareholding lessening of non-tradable stocks, transfer of block shares, and shares issuance and allotment. The special floor business on the block trading system refers to: the business in which shareholders with sell order or share-buyers with buy order can entrust the SSE members to provide relevant services of public offering, allotment and purchase; after the members submit applications to the SSE, the SSE will organize special floor, with relevant members and eligible investors as participants. Transactions will be conducted by ways of negotiation, inquiry and bidding through the block trading system and be settled by depository and clearing corporation. According the Guidelines, special floor business adopts qualification management and admittance system. Members with securities brokerage business qualifications can provide intermediary service of the block trading system for eligible investors and other investors; members with securities underwriting business qualifications can provide promoters of purchase and sale of block shares with such services as allotment and public offerings. Members with proprietary business and client asset management business qualifications and eligible investors can directly participate in the special floor business, while other investors should entrust members with trading. By members' recommendation and upon exchanges' approval, insurance companies, insurance assets management companies, trust and investment companies, management institutions of social security fund, enterprise annuity and pension fund, qualified foreign institutional investors, finance companies, state-owned assets operation institutions or authorized institutions, investment companies and assets management companies can obtain the qualifications for eligible investors. Eligible investors can directly participate in the on-floor trading and obtain the transfer intent information of the special floor business, negotiating the transfer price, amount, the proportion of trading commission and payment methods with intermediaries of promoters. It is learnt that the SSE will accept the applications for eligible investors' qualification since today. The Guidelines stipulate the procedures of special floor business. First of all, upon entrusted intermediaries' application for special floor business to the exchange, the exchange will conduct a formal examination on whether the shares are legally transferable and stainless. It must be emphasized that, the ready-to-be-transferred shares should not be the stock shares with terminated sales limit transferred by the controlling shareholder of a listed company within 30 days before the company's annual report and semi-annual report are announced; the shares seller and the shares receiver should abide by relevant rules of purchasing listed companies if the shares seller is no longer the listed company's controlling shareholder due to the shares transfer. The trading procedures of special floor business include: inquiry, bidding, allotment, bid-winning, trading confirmation, and delivery. After the block trading on every trading day, as to stock and fund block trading, the exchanges will announce the securities name, trading price, trading volume, and the name of promoter's intermediary. If the buyers are common investors who entrust members with trading, the business departments' names of the entrusted members should be published. If the buyers are eligible investors, the names should be published as "exclusive for institutions". The block trading is not accounted into calculation of the real time market data and index, and the trading volume will be accounted into the securities' total trading volume after the block trading. The "Guidelines" regulate the information disclosure of trading parties in the special floor business. The seller who lessens holding of 5% shares should announce within three trading days and should not trade within two days after the announcement; the major shareholder (who holds more than 5% shares) who holds less than 5% shares due to the shareholding lessening should make an announcement within two trading days; if shareholding lessening by the controlling shareholder leads to the change of controlling shareholder or actual controller, the equity change report should be announced; shareholders holding more than 5% of the company's shares which have gone through equity division reform should announce on the occasion of increasing or decreasing holding of 1% shares. Those buyers who possess 5% of the listed company's issued shares should announce (the equity change report) within three trading days and should not purchase or sell shares of the very company; those purchasers who possess 5% of the listed company's issued shares should announce within three trading days on the occasion of increasing or decreasing holding of 5% shares, and should not trade within two days after the announcement; those purchasers who possess 30% of the listed company's issued shares should conduct a tender offer while increasing holding of shares continuously. The Guidelines also define disposal of defaulters in the special floor business. The disposal of eligible investors' default include: paying full margin in advance when participating in special floor business of the block trading system; limiting the maximum scale of participating in special floor business of the block trading system; publicly criticizing; suspending the qualification for participating in special floor business of the block trading system; canceling the qualifications of eligible investors. As to an inquiree, it is suggested that the Securities Association of China should deprive the inquiree of its qualification. Disposal of members' default include: publicly criticizing; revoking the qualification for intermediary business. As to an SSE member, it is suggested that the CSRC should decreases the member's classification grade.

SSE Regulates Information Disclosure of Significant Asset Restructuring
21 May 2008
Continuous shares trading suspension should last for not more than 30 days. The Listed Company Department of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) issued yesterday night the "Memorandum of Information Disclosure of Significant Assets Restructuring of Listed Companies" (Memo) No.1 and No.2, namely, the "Procedures for Handling Information Disclosure" and "Guidelines for Financial Consultancy of Listed Companies' Significant Asset Restructuring (Trial)", thus further reforming and regulating the trading suspension system during significant asset restructuring, and intensifying the role of independent financial consultants. The Memo (No.1) stipulates that, in the process of plan and preparation for the significant asset restructuring, the listed companies should apply for continuous trading suspension to the Listed Companies Department no later than sending the directorate meeting materials to directors, and make a clear promise that continuous trading suspension should last for not more than 30 days. The directorate should make a promise of time limit in the announcement on continuous trading suspension in advance. In addition, during the trading suspension, listed companies whose continuous trading suspensions exceed 5 trading days should publish at least one progress announcement every Monday in line with the SSE rules, to explain the progress in negotiation, approval and pricing of the significant asset restructuring and uncertainties. The "Announcement on Continuous Trading Suspension" published by ST Shanghai Dajiang (Group) Stock Co., Ltd. today (due to its significant asset restructuring) has been handled according to the Memo's requirements. According to the Memo, listed companies should keep the restructuring information confidential during the significant asset restructuring. The Memo (No.1) stresses that the SSE Listed Company Department, in trading hours, should not accept the applications for trading suspension involved in the significant asset restructuring as well as receive and approve relevant information disclosure documents. Besides, the Memo also makes specific requirements of the documents which should be submitted by listed companies during the significant asset restructuring. According to the Memo (No.2), independent financial consultants should help the listed companies which are to implement significant asset restructuring analyze legal, financial and operational risks, put forward specific solutions and suggestions, design and perfect the significant asset restructuring scheme, and guide the consigners to work out application and information disclosure documents in line with relevant regulations. According to an insider, the requirements of independent financial consultants are similar to those of sponsors. It is suggested that the listed companies concerned should engage qualified and experienced institutions as independent financial consultants, especially securities institutions with the sponsor's qualification. Thus, it facilitates the smooth progress in significant asset restructuring and improvement of restructuring efficiency. According to an SSE official, since today, listed companies should conduct significant asset restructuring in line with the "Administrative Measures on Significant Asset Restructuring of the Listed Companies" and the above two Memos, while the former "initial communication" system has been officially terminated. Meanwhile, the official also stresses that the SSE performs the duty of form examination, i.e., conducting form examination of completeness of the prerequisite documents of relevant information disclosure in the significant asset restructuring as well as those documents issued by independent financial consultants during significant asset restructuring.

SSE Conducts 2008 Corporate Governance Sector Appraisal
21 May 2008
According to the "Appraisal Measures of SSE Corporate Governance Sector", the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) started application for the SSE Corporate Governance Sector in 2008 yesterday. Eligible companies who have not entered the sector can apply to the SSE before May 26. The SSE has recently issued the "Notice of Application for SSE Corporate Governance Sector in 2008" in the Section of Listed Companies on its website. According to the Notice, companies included in the SSE Corporate Governance Sector do not need to re-apply. If they want to retreat from the sector, applications should be submitted to the SSE. The eligible companies who haven't entered the SSE Corporate Governance Sector can submit applications before May 26. By May 19, a total of 199 constituents had been in the Corporate Governance Sector, with the total market capitalization of RMB9.1161 trillion. According to the Shanghai Securities News, so far, some fund companies have already negotiated with China Securities Index Co., Ltd., planning to develop ETF products based on the corporate governance index after the appraisal results of the Corporate Governance Sector come out.

Notice of Special Market Closure for Three Minutes
19 May 2008
All members and relevant units, According to the decision by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, to mourn for the victims in the massive earthquake in Wenchuan, Sichuan Province, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) will close the market for three minutes from 14:28 on May 19, 2008. All securities trading will be suspended during the period, and will be resumed from 14:31. During the special market closure, the SSE's trading system will not accept any applications for entrustment or order withdrawal. Members and relevant units should pay close attention to the relevant information issued by the SSE. Shanghai Stock Exchange May 19, 2008

SSE Donates over RMB15 Million to Sichuan Disaster Area
16 May 2008
Concerned about the earthquake-stricken area, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently held the CPC Committee Meeting, the General Manager's Office Meeting and the Middle-level Managers' Meeting. The SSE requires that the staff should focus on safe operation and ensure smooth and orderly trading as well as pay close attention to the rescue progress. In addition to the immediate RMB5 million donation after the catastrophe, another RMB10 million was donated to the area. The SSE staff also donated actively on the day of earthquake, and sent the donation timely to related departments. So far, the SSE's total donation has exceeded RMB15 million. Meanwhile, the relevant departments and a special technical rescue team of the SSE, paying close attention to the rescue and reconstruction in the disaster-stricken area, has assisted local listed companies and member companies in information disclosure and emergency repair, including the reconstruction of securities companies' business departments and the trading resumption.

SSE Amends Market Marking System of Treasury Bonds
16 May 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently issued the "Notice of Adjusting Issues concerning Treasury Bonds Market Making by Primary Dealers" to the dealers on the SSE comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities (the platform). According to the Notice, the platform will adopt a new scheme for treasury bonds market making. The new scheme brings forward the concept of "designated treasury bonds market making", i.e., the primary dealers will jointly make market of designated market-making treasury bonds. The one-year book-entry treasury bonds to be issued on June 6 will be taken as pilots for joint market making. Thanks to the advanced trading system and the great support of forward-looking and effective market marker system, the platform has been under smooth operation and active trading and won high praises from market participants since its trial operation on July 25, 2007. According to the measures on the platform, the ordinary financial institutions have floor access as ordinary dealers. Besides, the platform also establishes a high-quality team of primary dealers (market makers). Currently, the platform adopts the system of competitive market making system and an executable and effective bilateral quotation system. Primary dealers make bilateral quotations concerning listed treasury bonds within 10 base points. In addition, the bilateral quotations made by each dealer last more than 2 hours each day, which provides potent guarantee for treasury bonds liquidity. The platform now boasts 16 primary dealers, all of whom are securities dealers and asset companies with excellent fixed income securities operation capability. The strong team of market makers lays a solid foundation for the sound operation of the platform. According to an SSE official, with changes of the domestic economic environment, the functional emphasis of fixed income securities is shifting, and the demand on market liquidity allocation is growing. To actively respond to the new situation and satisfy financial institutions' growing needs of liquidity management, the SSE timely adjusts the platform-based market making system. The new scheme introduces designated treasury bonds for market making, and the primary dealers will jointly act as market makers for the designated treasury bonds. According to the official, the reason for selecting one-year treasury bonds as the first designated market-making treasury bonds is its better liquidity under the current interest rate. In the future, the term for the designated market-making treasury bonds will be extended to 3 years or other key periods. Thus, as a leap from the former "market-making treasury bonds chosen by market makers", the new scheme will enhance the market-making liquidity and ensure the effective floating of the secondary market. Based on the current market making rules and calculated with the minimum unilateral quotation unit of RMB5 million face value by market makers, all the unilateral quotations of the 16 primary dealers total RMB80 million face value, sufficient for the liquidity management of ordinary institutions. Moreover, the new market making rule has adjusted the ranking scheme for treasury bonds market making by primary dealers. The details treatment also reflects the actual situation in market making. Meanwhile, the trading between market makers and non-market-makers is also enhanced, to encourage the market makers to explore the market. And the score setting is more reasonable, bringing the primary dealers' advantages to full play. According to insiders, based on the platform, the SSE makes unremitting efforts to improve the treasury bonds' trading efficiency and promote the construction of the bonds market. The new market making system will help construct a qualified market-makers team for treasury bonds, to satisfy the liquidity needs of institutional investors, and promote rapid development of China's bonds market.

SSE Donates to Sichuan Disaster Area
15 May 2008
After the earthquake in Wenchuan of Sichuan Province, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) immediately contacted the securities companies and listed companies in the disaster-stricken area. Learning that the earthquake has brought huge damage to the people's lives and properties as well as local construction, the SSE quickly started to support the rescue work and secure the safe market operation. To help the people in the disaster area restore to normal life and assist in post-disaster reconstruction, the SSE donated RMB5 million and sent a relief letter to the Emergency Management Office of the People's Government of Sichuan Province on May 13. Besides, all SSE staff eagerly made donations. The SSE also keeps in contact with the listed companies in the disaster-stricken area and assist timely in the information disclosure and the trading suspension and resumption. A technology rescue team has been established, ready for any emergency repair of the business branches of securities companies in post-disaster reconstruction and trading resumption.

SSE Ensures Normal Operation of Trading Host
14 May 2008
After the strong earthquake in Wenchuan of Sichuan Province, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held two emergency meetings yesterday (May 13) at the wee hours and in the early morning, requiring all technical departments to ensure the trading host's normal and safe operation in an all round way. According to an SSE official, the SSE, always attaching great importance to safe operation of trading and relevant technical systems, gives priority to safe operation among all its work. In terms of disaster recovery, the SSE's trading system host adopts a backup mode of one host and several spare ones. In addition, the SSE set up the disaster recovery center in Waigaoqiao, Shanghai, the remote data backup centers and the enterprise data warehouses. Moreover, the new computer room, built by the SSE in the Shanghai Stock Exchange Building in 2006, has offered more room for a large amount of equipment for newly built technical systems. Besides, it has also enhanced the sustainable power supply and the intensive equipment management. The official also said that relevant departments of the SSE had already contacted headquarters of member companies in the disaster-stricken area for several times to learn the situation and will continue to pay close attention.

SSE Drives Listed Companies to Fulfill Social Responsibilities
14 May 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) today issues the "Notice of Improving Listed Companies' Assumption of Social Responsibilities" (hereinafter referred to as "the Notice") and the "SSE Guideline on Environmental Information Disclosure by Listed Companies", which aim to guide the listed companies to actively fulfill social responsibilities, attach importance to common interests of stakeholders, and commit themselves to building a harmonious society and promoting sustainable development of the economy and society. According to an SSE official, as the pillar of the national economy, listed companies should, in addition to pursuing economic results and protecting shareholders' interests, actively assume social responsibilities and take the lead in adjusting operational mode of enterprises and promoting sustainable development of the society. The SSE should introduce incentives for listed companies who attach importance to assumption of social responsibilities, such as priority in the election into the "SSE Corporate Governance Sector" and simplification in the examination and verification of their temporary announcements. According to requirements of the Notice, all listed companies should enhance the responsibility awareness as society members, and based on the characteristics of their industry groups and their own operation, figure out a social responsibility strategic plan and working mechanism in line with their own situation. All listed companies may promptly disclose in temporary announcements the initiatives and achievements in their assumption of social responsibilities, and post annual social responsibilities reports together with annual reports on the website of the SSE. It is noticeable that the Notice firstly brings up the concept of "social contribution value per share", which shall act as a new important measure for comprehensively and objectively evaluating a company's value creation. According to the Notice, companies can disclose the social contribution value per share in their annual social responsibilities reports. On the basis of earnings per share created for shareholders, the added value created for the society is calculated by adding tax revenues created for the State, salary paid to employees, loan interest paid to creditors including banks, donations and other value for stakeholders, and deducting social costs from environmental pollution or other factors. Thus, it will help the public get a full knowledge of the real value created by the company for its shareholders, employees, customers, creditors, communities and the whole society. Besides, according to the requirements of the "Guidance Opinion on Strengthening Regulation of Listed Companies concerning Environmental Protection" and the "Measures on Open Environmental Information (Trial)" newly promulgated by the Ministry of Environmental Protection of the People's Republic of China, the SSE also issues the "SSE Guideline on Environmental Information Disclosure by Listed Companies", which clarifies the information disclosure scope including environmental information disclosed in the form of temporary announcements, environmental information disclosed voluntarily by companies and information disclosed by serious-pollution enterprises determined by the environmental protection authority, and also defines the procedural requirements concerning environmental information disclosure, including way of announcement and filing of documents.

SSE Urges Wuxi Guolian to Repurchase Extra Lessened Shares
14 May 2008
Wuxi Guolian Development (Group) Co., Ltd. (Wuxi Guolian) was forbidden to sell shares of Zhejiang WHWH Industry Co., Ltd. (WHWH) within a month due to its extra shareholding lessening, and the extra-lessened shares were repurchased on May 13. Wuxi Guolian, a shareholder of WHWH, was penalized by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) due to its ultra-proportion shareholding lessening of stock shares with terminated sales limit of WHWH in its account. Urged by the SSE, Wuxi Guolian repurchased the extra-lessened shares on May 13. The SSE found in daily supervision that Wuxi Guolian, WHWH's shareholder, accumulatively lessened holding of 2,255,644 shares (accounting for 1.03% of WHWH's total issued shares) through the auction trading system from April 21 to May 12, which breaches relevant regulations in the "Guidance Opinion on Transfer of Stock Shares with Terminated Sales Limit of Listed Companies" (Guidance Opinion) issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). The SSE immediately contacted Guolian Securities Co., Ltd. designated for trading of the account and its subsidiary Xianqiandong Street Business Department in Wuxi, requiring them to take necessary warning and restriction measures on the client. Urged by the SSE, Wuxi Guolian repurchased the extra-lessened shares on May 13. In view of its timely remedy measures, the SSE imposed lesser punishment on Wuxi Guolian, the holder of "non-tradable stocks", imposing trading restriction on its account and forbidding the account to sell shares of WHWH within one month. The SSE has reiterated by several ways that holders of "non-tradable stocks" should strictly execute relevant stipulations in the Guidance Opinion issued by the CSRC and voluntarily safeguard the trading order of the securities market. The CSRC has also said for several times that holders of "non-tradable stocks" should be imposed on severe penalty for their illegal lessening of shares with sales limit. Besides, the market pays great attention to shareholding lessening of "non-tradable stocks". However, under such circumstance, ultra-proportion shareholding lessening of "non-tradable stocks" on the exchange's auction market still occurs repeatedly. The phenomenon not only reflects the weak awareness of relevant holders of "non-tradable stocks" to abide by regulations, but also reveals that some securities companies and their business departments have serious oversight and loose management in customer management, especially the key control of holders of "non-tradable stocks". Therefore, the SSE stressed that all member units should assume the management responsibility of clients' trading behaviors according to the recently issued 'Detailed Rules on Members' Management of Clients' Securities Trading'. By establishing and improving an effective securities trading and capital supervision system, all units should timely deter potential abnormal trading and trading suspected of violating laws and regulations, and put shareholding lessening by holders of "non-tradable stocks" on key supervision.

SSE to Punish Irregular Shareholding Lessening of Non-tradable Stocks
14 May 2008
The "SSE Guidance for Real-time Supervision on Abnormal Securities Trading" (the Guidance), implemented today upon promulgation by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), makes strict rules on securities account holding stock shares with terminated sales limit and shareholding lessening of more than 1% through auction system within a month. Apart from the trading limit of relevant securities accounts, the SSE can impose penalties on the relevant person based on the degree of the case, including public censure, credit archive recording, and public confirmation of ineligibility as director, supervisor or senior manager of listed company. In serious cases, the SSE should apply to the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) for such penalties as continuing to freeze the capital account or approving of extending the lock-up period of the stock shares. Since release and implementation of the "Detailed Rules on Members' Management of Clients' Securities Trading", the SSE issues the Guidance today in an effort to further implement the "Rules on Supervision over Securities Companies" and the "Rules on Risk Disposal of Securities Companies" promulgated by the State Council. The Guidance aims at strengthening the supervision over abnormal securities fluctuation and trading, maintaining the securities trading order, reminding the investors of rational investment, and protecting the legal rights and interests of the investors. The Guidance takes effect as of the promulgation day. According to the Guidance, if any abnormal securities price fluctuation or abnormal trading is discovered during the real-time supervision, the SSE has the right to take such measures as trading suspension during trading hours and trading limit of relevant securities account. It is an international convention for stock exchanges to suspend the trading of securities with abnormal fluctuation. Supervisors will make the judgment based on professional knowledge. Stock exchanges all over the world are entitled to make special trading suspension to securities with abnormal fluctuation. According to the "SSE Trading Rules", the SSE can impose trading suspension on the securities with abnormal fluctuation or the securities suspected of illegal and irregular trading. The Guidance summarizes and details the measures of special trading suspension in the existing rules. Another method often used in supervision over securities market is to limit the trading of irregular securities account. According to the "SSE Trading Rules", regarding serious abnormal trading, the SSE can take such measures as trading limit of relevant securities accounts depending on the situation. The Guidance also stipulates that the SSE can issue a written caution or perform trading limit to any securities account if it has intra-day trading of a single securities at the same price with relatively large accumulated amount or if it has intra-day trading for more than 5 times with relatively large accumulated amount. In line with the above regulations, members are obliged to strengthen the management of clients' trading, cooperate with the SSE in supervision over abnormal trading and improve self-regulation, promoting the sound development of the securities market. According to the SSE, upon the issuance of the "Guidance Opinion on Transfer of Stock Shares with Terminated Sales Limit of Listed Companies" by the CSRC in April 2008, the SSE immediately issued the "Operation Guidance on Transfer of Stock Shares with Terminated Sales Limit on Block Trading System", defining the transfer of stock shares with terminated sales limit through block trading system. However, irregular shareholding lessening happened consecutively in May, including Sichuan Pingyuan Industrial Development Co., Ltd. and Mianyang Yiduoyuan Real Estate Development Co., Ltd. lessening the shareholding of Sichuan Hongda Co., Ltd. and Shanghai Petroleum Retail Branch of China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation lessening the shareholding of Shanghai Kai Kai Industrial Co., Ltd. In response, the SSE immediately took such measures as criticizing the three companies publicly, imposing trading limit on their securities accounts and reporting the violations to the CSRC for investigation and punishment. In the future, the SSE will further strengthen the supervision over securities with abnormal fluctuation and securities accounts with abnormal trading to prevent excessive speculation for protection of the interests of small and medium investors. In particular, it will strictly supervise over securities accounts irregularly lessening stock shares with terminated sales limit and take timely measures. The SSE reminds the relevant shareholders of listed companies of strictly abiding by the regulations on the transfer of stock shares with terminated sales limit. It urges all member units to intensify management of clients' trading, guide and caution the shareholders holding "big/small non-tradable stocks" in shareholding lessening, and take the responsibility of clients' supervision. In addition to reminding the investors of risk prevention, rational investment and legal trading, it also cautions them to avoid blind speculation and stay away from securities with abnormal fluctuation.

SSE: Four Requirements for Regulation of Members' Customers' Trading Activities
09 May 2008
Q & A —— SSE official on Detailed Rules The "Detailed Rules on Members' Management of Customers' Securities Trading Activities" (hereinafter referred to as Detailed Rules), released today by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), which specifies how SSE's members should commit themselves to market self-regulation, is expected to guide, regulate and administer customers' securities trading activities for the sound development of the securities market. An SSE official made these remarks as follows in an interview with the press: Q: What's the background for the SSE to introduce and implement the Rules? A: The Detailed Rules is in response to the "Rules on Supervision over Securities Companies" and the "Rules on Risk Disposition of Securities Companies" (hereinafter jointly referred to as the Two Rules). The Two Rules carefully designs a system of securities companies' operation and oversight, and highlights their duties and responsibilities for engaging brokerage business and protecting customers according to law. In the principle of the Two Rules, the SSE stipulated the Detailed Rules, a vital step in the implementation of the Two Rules. The Detailed Rules also responds to the need for promotion of securities market's healthy development and exchange's self-regulatory work in a new condition. As the securities market has grown steadily in recent years, securities companies have doubled their customer base. But an urgent issue has cropped up: how should securities companies, in addition to the development of their brokerage business, perform their duties of managing and educating customers and guide investors to regulated and rational securities trading. An effective solution to the issue is to make better use of the exchange's functions and emphasize exchange's members' responsibility of managing customers' trading activities. For years, following the unified arrangement of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the SSE has been working on promoting the SSE's members to manage customers' trading activities and accumulated some effective experiences and practices. Meanwhile, the SSE has been researching and making rules on self-regulation. All the efforts attribute to the formation of the Detailed Rules. Q: What are the basic guiding principles of the Detailed Rules? A: The Detailed Rules, an important detailed rule supporting the SSE's "Member Management Rules", perfects the SSE's member self-regulatory rule system. The Detailed Rules has three basic guiding principles: firstly, fully play members' role in the SSE's self-regulation in securities transactions. The Detailed Rules clearly requires members to shoulder responsibility of managing customers' trading activities; secondly, extend the frontier of self-regulation in securities transactions. The SSE's members directly accept investors' entrustment and form brokerage business relationship. Therefore, the members, with direct interest, are best positioned to guide investors to conduct securities transactions according to law and to timely deter any abnormal trading activities; thirdly, timely solve any disputes arising from customers' securities transactions. Members, in the frontline of the market, can well solve any existing or possible disputes arising from customers' securities transactions, thus pacifying investors, maintaining market trading order and promoting a stable growth of the market. Q: What are the specific systems and requirements concerning members' duty performance of managing clients' trading brought forward by the Detailed Rules? A: The Detailed Rules, whose main contents and system arrangement aim to promote members' duty performance of managing clients' trading, details the specific systems and requirements in the following four aspects: Firstly, members should introduce category management based on a full understanding of their clients. According to the Detailed Rules, before accepting the trading entrustment of their clients, members should know about the credit status, trading habits, experiences in securities investment, risk tolerance and risk preference of their clients, so as to conduct category management. Secondly, members should orient investors to the full exposure of trading risks. According to the Detailed Rules, when entrusted with trading by clients, members should introduce completely and in time all the business rules related to securities trading published by the SSE to their clients. Before providing trading services of high-risk products or business, including warrants, margin trading and securities lending, members should explain and disclose in detail the inclusive special risks to clients concerned, and require them to sign written risk disclosure documents to do a continuous good job in risk disclosure. Thirdly, members should take effective measures to discover in time and deter potential abnormal trading. According to the Detailed Rules, members should establish a sound and effective monitor system on securities trading and capitals, draw out relevant management system and set up relevant alert indicators in the monitor system based on the specific situations of their clients, thus paying attention to the potential abnormal trading and trading suspected of violating laws and regulations. According to market demands, if the amount of stock shares with terminated sales limit sold by their holders through the auction system in one month is close to 1% of the listed company's total issued shares, or the clients selling stock shares with terminated sales limit through the block trading system have obvious association with their trading counterparts, the Detailed Rules also requires members to list the two activities in their supervision scope. Besides, the Detailed Rules also prescribes that members should stipulate in securities transaction entrustment agreements with customers that, if customers violate any laws or regulations in their use of accounts, or conduct abnormal trading activities severely affecting normal trading order, members can reject customers' entrustment, or terminate securities transaction entrustment relationship with customers. Fourthly, members should assist the SSE in the self-regulation of customers' trading activities and the adoption of oversight measures. Members and their business branches should assist the SSE in investigations, timely providing customers' account opening documents, entrustment authorization letters, receipts of fund depository and withdrawal, fund account information and trading information in a truthful, accurate and complete manner. SSE members and their business branches should, upon SSE requests for assistance in providing information on some accounts, make timely investigations and provide the required materials or statements. When the SSE interviews members' senior officers or other staff for customers' abnormal trading activities, members should actively cooperate and adopt effective measures to ask customers for elimination of negative influence of abnormal trading activities. Q: How will the SSE implement the Detailed Rules and ensure members to well manage customers' trading activities? A: The crux lies with the SSE in implementing the publicized Detailed Rules. In this regard, the SSE will mainly commit itself to the following work: firstly, organize business training and assure good understanding of the Detailed Rules by members and heads of their branches; secondly, perfect supporting system and procedures, and guide members and their branches in performance of responsibilities of managing customers' trading activities; thirdly, in due time, conduct examinations or random checks on the implementation of the Detailed Rules, and timely impose disciplinary actions against possible problems and weak execution; fourthly, make follow-up investigation on the implementation of the Detailed rules for timely adjustment and improvement.

SSE to Issue Detailed Rules on Members' Management of Clients' Securities Trading
30 Apr 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently mustered some divisions for a symposium on the study and implementation of the "Rules on Supervision over Securities Companies" and the "Rules on Risk Disposal of Securities Companies" (hereinafter jointly referred to as the Two Rules). The meeting reached the consensus that the Two Rules lay a foundation for the regularized development of the securities trade, offer standards to solve current market's hot spots and hard issues, and serve as meaningful guidance for SSE's better self-regulation work. The SSE will endeavor for the early introduction of the "Detailed Rules on Members' Management of Clients' Securities Trading", which should supplement the rules system regarding members' management through detailed business rules. Moreover, the meeting concluded that, the Two Rules, as a great move in the construction of the securities market' basic system, should have a great impact on the regularized growth of securities companies, the prevention of risks in securities companies, the rationalization of the delisting mechanism for securities companies, thus protecting investors' interests. Meanwhile, the Two Rules, as the major fruit of the comprehensive governance for securities companies, integrate past experiences from the oversight over securities companies. Most of all, the lines of the Two Rules show that the CPC Central Committee and the State Council take a positive stance towards the achievement in comprehensive governance of securities companies. According to the meeting, the work schedule for implementing the Two Rules is arranged as follows:             Firstly, the SSE should pore over the Two Rules for an insightful understanding, and then streamline relevant business rules. Among other things, the SSE should soon introduce the "Detailed Rules on Members' Management of Clients' Securities Trading", for the purpose of offering detailed business rules to supplement the rules system regarding members' management. Besides, the SSE will carefully review its business rules and timely revise any controversial or inconsistent part with the Two Rules. Secondly, the management on members' trading jurisdiction should be strengthened with the development of innovative products and mechanisms on the market. Base on the strict market entrance requirements for securities companies stipulated by the Two Rules, the SSE should continue its effort to enhance the management of members' trading jurisdiction. With members' net capital, size, operation performance and technical system being taken into consideration, members' trading jurisdiction will be monitored in a dynamic manner in such aspects as products, modes and sizes. Thirdly, the SSE should put more efforts to enhance members' risk management capability and service quality. With an eye on improving members' client management, the SSE will encourage members to get a better knowledge of their clients, to provide appropriate products and services, to fully disclose risks to clients, to early detect and deal with clients' abnormal trading activities, to improve their service quality from every possible aspects, and to fully exert their roles in the development of the securities market. Fourthly, the SSE should intensify members' technical monitoring capability and safeguard the information management. Per the principle of safe operation, the SSE should enhance members' management of trading and related technical systems. It will draft in proper time the "Guideline for Technical Standardization and Operation Management of Member's Trading and Related Systems" and encourage members to adopt various measures to ensure safe operation of the securities market. Fifthly, the SSE should rigorously educate investors and foster qualified investors. Although it has set up a special division for investor education, it should not stop at this. The SSE should strengthen investor education coupled with the promulgation of the Two Rules and the pilot work on evaluation of securities companies' professionalism. Besides, it should encourage and guide members in the commitment of investor education. Meanwhile, the SSE should actively foster qualified investors in a bid to optimize market structure and promote market's operational quality and efficiency. Sixthly, the SSE should cooperate in the risk disposal of securities companies, move relentlessly to remove unqualified members from the market, and complete its work on comprehensive governance of securities companies. It is emphasized at the meeting that the SSE should, in a positive way, support members' regularized growth and promote the healthy development of the trade by establishing the long-term mechanism. To achieve this, the SSE will, firstly, improve securities companies' profitability modes and market adaptability through providing more innovative products and better trading mechanism to the market; secondly, facilitate securities companies' business and product innovation by offering matched technical and operational services; thirdly, in accordance with the Two Rules' regulations on margin trading and securities lending, draft detailed rules and business operation procedures to pave the way for the smooth and regularized running of the margin trading and securities lending.

Q&A by SSE Officials Concerning "Operation Guidance on Transfer of Stock Shares with Terminated Sales Limit on Block Trading System"
24 Apr 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) issued the "Notice of Implementing 'Guidance Opinion on Transfer of Stock Shares with Terminated Sales Limit of Listed Companies'" (the Notice) on April 22, 2008 and the "Operation Guidance on Transfer of Stock Shares with Terminated Sales Limit through Block Trading System" (Operation Guidance) on April 24. The Operation Guidance details the participants of the block trading and service functions on the basis of the Notice, according to the SSE officials in an interview. I. What are the background of the Notice and the function of the Operation Guidance? A: China's securities market saw turning-point changes as the equity division reform is being rounded off. Thanks to the gradual ban-lift of floating shares with sales limit, listed companies' equity is no longer being divided into floating shares and non-floating shares. Meanwhile, some new characteristics crop up in market operation. The auction market with automatic order match, serving retailer investors for a long time, can not fully meet the demand of investors for block securities issuance and trading. To adapt to the new changes and maintain the sound development of the market, the Notice, issued recently by the SSE upon the approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) according to relevant laws, regulations, rules and the "Guidance Opinion on Transfer of Stock Shares with Terminated Sales Limit of Listed Companies" of the CSRC, will allow the block trading to better serve the transfer of stock shares with terminated sales limit and further exert the market's pricing function. For better market operation, the SSE published the Operation Guidance on relevant specific issues of the Notice for the smooth implementation of the business. II. What are the detailed provisions of the Operation Guidance? A: The Operation Guidance specifies the issues, such as major operational procedures and business accepting department, concerning the block trading system's services for the transfer of stock shares with terminated sales limit. Details are as follows: 1. Defining the business accepting scope of the block trading system. Shareholders, who plan to sell publicly in the succeeding month stock shares with terminated sales limit that are more than 1% of the listed company's total issued shares, should transfer their shares through the block trading system. In addition, the SSE also encourages the following business to be conduced on the block trading system: 1) investors plan to sell publicly in the succeeding month shares that are less than 1% of the listed company's total issued shares, but are no less than 1.50 million shares; 2) issuer of securities issues and allots stocks to eligible investors; 3) other items of business approved by the CSRC or recognized by the SSE. 2. Defining the application requirements and procedures for eligible investors. Eligible investors such as securities companies and investment fund companies are allowed to participate directly in the block trading system, while other investors are encouraged to participate in the block trading system via SSE members. 3. Stipulating that investors planning to transfer their stock shares with terminated sales limit engage qualified members for allotment and arrange the preliminary inquiry before the allotment. 4. Introducing the SSE's existing primary dealer system of other business to the block trading system to improve its operation efficiency. Primary dealers should fulfill the obligations as defined in the agreement with the SSE. 5. Defining the specific trading and delivery methods for the convenience of investors. 6. Stipulating that the trading rules concerning the trading price range of block trading should be effective officially since the announcement of the Operation Guidance (These rules should be kept in suspension when the original trading rules are under revision). The block trading price of securities with trading limits should be determined by the two trading parties within the daily trading limits on the same trading day. The block trading price of securities without trading limits should be determined by the two trading parties upon negotiation based on the 30% floating of the closing price on the previous trading day or between the highest and lowest trading prices of the same trading day. 7. Defining a preferential charge for the block trading system. Besides, such contents as information disclosure, supervision and penalties are added to reinforce market supervision and trading surveillance. III. What are the influences on the lessening of stock shares with terminated sales limit after the implementation of the Notice and the Operation Guidance? A: According to the Notice and the Operation Guidance, shareholders, who plan to sell publicly in the succeeding month stock shares with terminated sales limit that are more than 1% of the listed company's total issued shares, should transfer their shares through the block trading system. If the above shareholders, who plan to sell publicly in the succeeding month stock shares that are less than 1% of the listed company's total issued shares but more than 1.5 million shares, are also encouraged to transfer their shares through the block trading system. After the implementation of the Notice and the Operation Guidance, the listing and floating rights of the shareholders who possess stock shares with terminated sales limit are still under legal protection by safer and more effective approaches. Thanks to the block trading system, those shareholders can conveniently sell their block shares publicly at lower costs. The participation of eligible investors offers a more reasonable market price to prospective sellers of stock shares with terminated sales limit, thus better protecting their own rights and maintaining the market image. The system, which has to some extent cushioned the impact of the public sale of stock shares with terminated sales limit exerted on the secondary market, is conducive to the stability of market participation and of the control of irrational market fluctuation. IV. How will the SSE organize the implementation of the Notice and the Operation Guidance? A: In view of the resolute implementation of the Notice and the Operation Guidance, the SSE will be dedicated to the following jobs to develop the block trading system: Firstly, improving the supporting systems and work process; Secondly, preparing related technologies for ensuring trading safety; Thirdly, arranging a special department to deal with related business and offer all-round services; Fourthly, organizing vocational training and making efforts to market publicity; Fifthly, strengthening trading surveillance and improving market supervision; Sixthly, observing market trend, analyzing market impact and soliciting public feedbacks.

SSE Issues Guidance on Non-tradable Shares Transfer through Block Trading System
24 Apr 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) today released the "Operation Guidance on Transfer of Stock Shares with Terminated Sales Limit through Block Trading System", specifying relevant issues concerning the transfer of stock shares with terminated sales limit through the block trading system and clarifying main operation procedures and business acceptance departments. （Stock shares refers to shares, with a certain limited selling period, of the listed companies who have completed the equity division reform, or the shares, of the companies listed after the period of "complete separation of new shares from the old ones", issued before initial public offering.） According to the Guidance, the SSE block trading system can be used when: 1) holders of stock shares with terminated sales limit plan to sell publicly in the upcoming month more than 1% of a company's total issued shares, or no less than 1.50 million shares though less than 1% of the listed company's total issued shares; 2) securities issuers issue and allot shares to eligible investors; or 3) other business approved by the China Securities Regulatory Commission or stipulated by the SSE. The Guidance states that a primary dealer mechanism shall be established in the block trading system, and SSE members can apply to act as primary dealers in the block trading system. Meanwhile, the SSE will conduct real-time supervision over shares sales through the SSE auction trading system by holders of stock shares with terminated sales limit. According to the Guidance, the SSE members and relevant institutions equipped with rights to trade on the SSE can directly have the capability of acting as eligible investors in the block trading system. Meanwhile, with SSE members' recommendation, insurance companies, insurance assets management companies, trust and investment companies, management companies of social security fund, enterprise annuity and pension fund, qualified foreign institutional investors, finance companies, state-owned assets operation institutions or authorized institutions, investment companies and assets management companies can apply to become eligible investors in the block trading system. The SSE members and eligible investors can directly participate in the business of the block trading system, while other investors should entrust members with trading. Members who have been penalized by relevant supervision authorities or punished by the SSE in the most recent year cannot accept entrustment of the block trading business. As to business procedures, the Guidance stipulates that eligible investors who plan to transfer stock shares with terminated sales limit through the block trading system can engage qualified members for such services as underwriting and allotment, and can conduct preliminary price inquiry after the closing of the previous trading day before the scheduled transfer day. Negotiation, price inquiry and bidding can be practiced in the block trading system. Once an agreement is reached, the concluded transaction should be filed, with the execution result pursuant to the execution data recorded in the SSE block trading system. In the aspect of transfer price, the Guidance states that trading parties shall reach a block trading price within the range of maximum price fluctuation if securities are subject to such maximum price fluctuation. However, if securities are not subject to maximum price fluctuation, the trading parties can negotiate to fix a block trading price within the range of 30% above or below the previous closing price or between the highest and the lowest price of the very day. The trading parties of the block trading system can adopt either guaranteed delivery or non-guaranteed delivery. If agreeing on non-guaranteed delivery, trading parties should reach agreements on the delivery term, the proportion of surety bond and the resolution of delivery failure. The Guidance emphasizes that if any practices in the block trading system are subject to information disclosure according to law, relevant party concerned should fulfill the information disclosure obligation as required. The SSE will implement day-to-day oversight over members and eligible investors engaged in the block trading system. Members and eligible investors should abide by relevant laws, regulations and all business rules, and must not conduct insider trading or market manipulation through the block trading system.

CSI HK 100 to Be Launched as New Measurement of Hong Kong Market
24 Apr 2008
China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) has recently announced that the CSI Hong Kong 100 Index, with the short description of "CSI HK 100", will be officially launched on May 7, 2008 to reflect the overall performance of securities listed on the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited. The index' base day is December 31, 2004, with the base point of 1,000. Its code is 000923 on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and 399923 on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE). According to the published construction scheme, the index's constituents, including ordinary shares and REITs, are composed of listed securities with the Hong Kong main board or the growth enterprise board as their main listing hub. By considering liquidity and investment risks, the index selects the top 100 securities in terms of market capitalization on the Hong Kong market as constituents. An individual stock is subject to a 10% upper limit when weighed, thus reducing the risk that the index is determined by a single stock. Moreover, the CSI simultaneously calculates and releases the price index value and the complete income index value denominated in Hong Kong dollar and RMB, respectively, to meet the demands of domestic and overseas index users. The release of the CSI HK 100 Index, offering new underlying instruments for the development of derivatives, helps domestic and overseas investors to analyze the trend of the Hong Kong securities market from a new perspective. It is learned that some domestic and overseas institutions have started preparation for launch of investment products related to CSI HK 100. At present, investors can access the index's daily closing quotation on the websites of the CSI (www.csindex.com.cn), the SSE (www.sse.com.cn) and the SZSE (www.szse.cn), or through such channels as Shanghai Wind Information Co., Ltd., Financial China Information & Technology Co., Ltd., Shanghai Glidata Service Co., Ltd., Thomson-Reuters, TX Investment Consulting Co., Ltd. and Shihua Financial Information. After the index runs for a period, its real-time quotation will be available for investors to check the movement of the index (coded 000923 and 399923) through the satellite systems of the SSE and the SZSE. By April 23, 2008, CSI HK 100 (RMB) closed at 1,724 points, up 72% from the base point, and CSI HK 100 (HK Dollar) closed at 2,046 points, up 105% from the base point.

Notice of Cooperation in Adjusting Stamp Duty Rate for Securities Transfer
23 Apr 2008
All units concerned: According to the "Notice of Adjusting Stamp Duty Rate for Securities (Stock) Transfer" of the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation, each party to a transfer deed on purchase, sale, inheriting and gifting of A or B shares shall be subject to a 1‰ stamp duty rate for securities (stock) transfer on or after April 24, 2008. All units concerned are requested to cooperate in related work. Shanghai Stock Exchange April 23, 2008

Notice of Implementing "Guidance Opinion on Transfer of Stock Shares with Terminated Sales Limit of Listed Companies"
22 Apr 2008
All member units and eligible investors, To better implement the "Guidance Opinion on Transfer of Stock Shares with Terminated Sales Limit of Listed Companies", the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby announces the relevant issues concerning the transfer of stock shares with terminated sales limit on the block trading system: I. Exchange members and eligible investors can directly participate in the business of the block trading system, and other investors should entrust members with trading. Qualifications and application procedures of eligible investors are open to further notification. II. Shareholders, who possess stock shares with terminated sales limit, can transfer their shares through the block trading system by way of allotment or public offering. III. Shareholders, who possess stock shares with terminated sales limit and plan to sell publicly in the succeeding month stock shares that are less than 1% of the listed company’s total issued shares, but are no less than 1.50 million shares, are encouraged to transfer their shares through the block trading system. IV. Transfer of stock shares with terminated sales limit on the block trading system should conform to relevant regulations in the SSE "Trading Rules". The obligor of information disclosure should timely fulfill the obligation of information disclosure. Shanghai Stock Exchange April 22, 2008

Constructing Infrastructures for China's Stable Capital Market
21 Apr 2008
A spokesperson for the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) has commented on the "Guidance Opinion on Transfer of Stock Shares with Terminated Sales Limit of Listed Companies" (shortened hereinafter as Guidance Opinion). In its newly issued Guidance Opinion, the CSRC is to regulate the collective sales of stock shares with terminated sales limit that exceeds a certain amount by shareholders of listed companies, the CSRC spokesperson told reporters. The spokesman points out that China's emerging and transitional capital market is characterized by the long-term and difficult task for promoting the sound development of the capital market. An emerging market calls for the synchronization of the market development with the market self-reform, promoting development through reform, and keep reinforcing the infrastructure of the market. It also requires the perfection of market law, legislation and rules, fostering the main body of the market, reinforcing market supervision, promoting market structure adjustment, and encouraging the formation of a good market culture. Also, the external environment and internal mechanism of the market operation need to be improved in the long run. In the last few years, we have seen the exploration and reform by some century-old mature capital markets in face of the changing market. To promote the sound and steady development of China’s capital market requires the guidance of Scientific Outlook on Development to deepen the understanding of the essence, function and impact of capital market in practice, deepen the understanding of capital market rules, and keep exploring the way ahead. Thanks to a series of reforms and comprehensive treatments such as equity division reform in recent years, turning-point changes have taken place on China's capital market. With further improvement in the basis for market operation and market law and regulations, listed companies are changing for the better in terms of their qualities, while intermediaries are more standardized and investors structure and behavioral model have positive changes. As market supervision keeps improving, the capital market has exerted a broader impact on national economy. Meanwhile, we must see that China's capital market, an emerging and transitional one, is yet to gradually solve old problems in the new market operation environment while some new problems will crop up. The global financial market has recently suffered a sharp turbulence. The trend of the main stock indices on the international market is experiencing great fluctuation with rising energy, resource and food prices. As a result of excessive liquidity, the international capital flow becomes more frequent, and the fluctuation on the international capital market exerts further influence on the emerging markets. All this has impact on domestic investors' market judgment and investment orientation, thus complicating China's stock market in internal and external operation factors. Earnest analysis and research is required while adopting active methods to solve the problems. When dealing with the existing problems on the stock market, we should combine the sustainability and stability of laws and regulations with the market development. In addition, investors’ legal rights and interests should be protected by upholding the principle of equality, fairness and openness to guarantee a sustainable and healthy development of the market. According to the spokesman, after the gradual ban-lift, shares with sales limit of listed companies that have completed the equity division reform will turn into floating shares with free transfer. If the shares are transferred through the call auction trading system of the stock exchange, the efficiency will be low, the price of the stock will be under great pressure and the price forming mechanism will be distorted as the volume is closely related to the activity of the secondary market. Things are quite different on the foreign mature markets. Transfer of a block of shares is operated through blocking trading or public offering of securities companies. The Guidance Opinion has defined the shares, with a certain limited selling period, of the listed companies who have completed the equity division reform, or the shares, of the companies listed after the period of “complete separation of new shares from the old ones”, issued before initial public offering, as the stock shares. It is also stipulated that if shareholders, who possess stock shares with terminated sales limit, plan to sell publicly in the succeeding month stock shares that are more than 1% of their total issued shares, they should transfer their shares through the block trading system of the stock exchange. This, in accordance with the need of the development of China’s capital market, is also a fundamental construction work that merits the experience of the mature market under the requirements of “a long-and-short-term planning for once-and-for-all solutions”. From the long term, the promulgation of the Guidance Opinion, which helps to solve the market efficiency problem concerning the large-scale one-off collective shares sale on the secondary market by shareholders of listed companies after the all-floating era through institutional regulation and arrangement, will avoid the price distortion caused by the sale. From now on, the block transfer of non-stock shares can also be conducted on the block trading system to improve market efficiency. In the short run, after the promulgation of the Guidance Opinion, the block transfer of stock shares with terminated sales limit, to be conducted on the block trading systems, is expected to ease the pressure on the secondary market and the impact on the price discovery mechanism of the call auction trading system, and to stabilize investors' anticipation for shareholding lessening of stock shares. Compared with the call auction trading, block trading and public offering have their unique advantages. Thanks to the price negotiation mechanism, the block trading or public offering, characterized by flexible pricing, less influence on prices of on-floor trading, higher efficiency and lower trading cost, is a better trading method for large-scale collective shares transfer. Besides, after several years' operation, the block trading systems of the Shanghai Stock Exchange and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, which are mature in technology system and supervision means, can better meet the needs of shares transfer. According to the Guidance Opinion, the stock exchanges will publish corresponding detailed rules to further regulate the transfer provisions on the block trading systems and work out system arrangements, including the size expansion of investors who participate in the block trading systems and the public offering of stock shares via securities companies, thus providing a high efficiency transfer platform for shares with the listing and floating right.

First Electronic Offline IPO Succeeds
18 Apr 2008
Through initial research and preparation, as the first electronic offline issuance on the Shanghai market, the electronic offline IPO of Jinduicheng Molybdenum Group Co., Ltd. was officially launched on March 28, 2008. All work was running smoothly with the allotment result announcement published on April 11. The IPO Electronic Offline Subscription Platform (the Subscription Platform) of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) is under normal operation. The first issuance succeeded with timely and complete fund-receiving-in-account and refundment. In this offline issuance, 150 inquirees quoted through the Subscription Platform during the period of the preliminary inquiry and sent 158 inquiry records; during the accumulative bidding and subscription period, 220 allotees subscribed through the Subscription Platform and sent 229 bidding records; during the fund transfer period, 212 allotees actually transferred the subscription funds of RMB 158.667 billion in 226 transactions. Except for 4 inquirees who haven’t opened their accounts at the 15 designated banks for settlement, only 1 inquiree conducted interbank fund transfer among the 15 banks. Electronic offline IPO aims to release large-scale interbank fund flow, improve the offline IPO efficiency, and optimize the business processes of market participants including underwriters, inquirees and allotees. Compared with previous issuance method, electronic offline IPO does not change the legal relationship among all parties. Lead underwriters entrust the SSE and the Shanghai Branch of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited (SD&C) with the offline IPO through the SSE Subscription Platform and the fund settlement system of the Shanghai Branch of SD&C, to recognize the final allotees and to supervise whether their fund subscription conforms to the supervision requirements. The beneficiary banks, increasing from several ones to 15 banks, help to solve the problem brought in by large-scale interbank flow of offline subscription fund. Through electronic quotation and the automation of the Subscription Platform, manpower and material resources of lead underwriters and inquirees are saved with the improved efficiency in offline issuance. From now on, offline IPO on the Shanghai market will be mainly conducted in electronic manner.

SSE Medium Enterprise Composite Index to Be Launched in May
16 Apr 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) have recently announced that the SSE Medium Enterprise Composite Index, with the code of 000020, will be officially launched on May 12, 2008. The index will reflect the overall performance of medium companies listed on the SSE. The base day of the index is December 28, 2007 and the base point is 1,000. According to the published construction scheme, such indicators as total capital stock, total assets and revenue will be taken into consideration, and A share companies listed on the SSE will be classified into three sectors: large cap, medium cap and small cap. The SSE Medium Enterprise Composite Index will take all medium cap stocks as constituents. Thanks to the smooth completion of equity division reform and successive listing of large enterprises, the SSE’s position as the main board blue chip market has been established and consolidated. The large-cap blue chip indices, represented by the SSE 180 Index and the SSE 50 Index, well reflect the main blue chips on the Shanghai market and give full play to their functions. Besides the large-cap blue chips, medium enterprises are another vital group on the SSE. To establish the position of the major exchange for large and medium enterprises, the SSE will continue to commit itself in attracting more medium enterprises. Such an endeavor will be helped with the compilation and publication of the SSE Medium Enterprise Composite Index, which aims to equip investors, listed companies and regulatory authorities with indicators and analysis tools on the overall status of medium enterprises on the Shanghai stock market. The composite index covers all medium enterprises. Later, the SSE and the CSI will, subject to the market conditions, introduce sub-indices composed of a fixed number of representative medium enterprises, for the purpose of offering underlying indices for indexation investment products and providing platforms for the innovation of trading system. According to the published classification standard, in the aspect of sheer numbers, large enterprises accounts for about 30% on the Shanghai securities market, while medium enterprises about 50%. But in proportion of the floating capitalization, the large enterprises account for 73.3%, while medium enterprises only about 22.5%. As more large-scale state-owned enterprises including H shares ones and red chips ones as well as a lot of medium enterprises went listing on the Shanghai market, the SSE as a listing hub for large and medium enterprises will be best reflected in the structure: large enterprises are heaviest in market capitalization and medium enterprises are largest in sheer numbers.

Notice of Zijin Electronic Offline IPO
07 Apr 2008
All units related to new shares offline issuance, The IPO of Zijin Mining Group Company Limited (Zijin) has been approved by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. According to regulations of the "Detailed Rules for Electronic Offline IPO on Shanghai Market", Zijin will adopt electronic offline issuance. Related issues are notified as follows: 1. Electronic offline issuance only opens to eligible inquirees and allotees. Individual investors should still subscribe for new shares through online issuance. 2. To guarantee the smooth electronic offline issuance adopted recently by some companies, inquirees and allotees participating in the offline issuance of Zijin should still log on the SSE's IPO electronic offline subscription platform (shortened hereafter as "subscription platform") with their user passwords of the database. Investors should make relevant technical preparations for electronic offline issuance, to guarantee the smooth logging-on of the subscription platform during the issuance period. 3. Inquirees should set up the customer end software according to the "Instructions for Setup & Configuration of Customer End of SSE IPO Electronic Offline Subscription Platform". Within the period of preliminary inquiry and offline issuance announced by the issuers, the inquirees can log on the customer end of the subscription platform with their SSE-released database customers (trader code) and logging passwords, to participate in the preliminary inquiry and quotation as well as the accumulative bidding inquiry, quotation and subscription. 4. All bidding units should notice that it is the first issuance of the shares whose face value is not RMB1. 5. For the schedule of and other remarks on the issuance, please refer to the "Announcement on Arrangement for IPO of A Shares and Preliminary Inquiry" and the "Announcement on Offline IPO of A Shares". 6. For policies and regulations of electronic offline issuance and other business notices, please refer to the special column of electronic offline issuance on the SSE website (www.sse.com.cn). Telephone numbers for technical support of subscription platform: 4008888400 ext. 8003, 021-68800406, 021-68804225, and 021-68803316； Telephone numbers for business support of electronic offline issuance: 021-68806289, 021-68804229. Shanghai Stock Exchange April 7, 2008

SSE Makes Final Decision Regarding Delisting of *ST DQLY
02 Apr 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange announced today that, according to examination opinions of the Review Committee, it has made the final decision with respect to the review request submitted by Daqing Lianyi Petro-Chemical Co., Ltd. (DQLY) regarding the decision of delisting its shares. The final decision states that the decision made on December 5, 2007 of delisting DQLY's shares shall be upheld. The announcement states that the SSE Review Committee has recently held the 1st meeting of 2008, which examined issues contained in DQLY's review request and formed the following opinions: the SSE has examined the issue of DQLY's listing resumption according to relevant regulations. The procedures are proper and the operation is regulated. The Listing Committee's examination opinion regarding DQLY's application for listing resumption is appropriate. Therefore, the decision of delisting DQLY's shares shall be upheld.

SSE Announcement
02 Apr 2008
The SSE Review Committee held the 1st meeting of 2008 on April 1, which examined issues contained in DQLY's review request and formed the following opinions: the SSE has examined the issue of DQLY's listing resumption according to relevant regulations. The procedures are proper and the operation is regulated. The Listing Committee's examination opinion regarding DQLY's application for listing resumption is appropriate. Therefore, the decision of delisting DQLY's shares shall be upheld. The SSE, according to examination opinions of the Review Committee, upheld the decision made on December 5, 2007 of delisting DQLY's shares.

SSE Strengthens Communication with Media
31 Mar 2008
The 2008 News Publicity Symposium, held recently by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), reviewed the highlights of SSE's work in 2007 and outlined a road map for 2008. More than 50 people attended the symposium, including SSE Governor Geng Liang and SSE President Zhang Yujun, and top officials from the China Securities Journal, the Shanghai Securities News, the Securities Times, the Shanghai Branch of the Xinhua News Agency and other media. The symposium, which aims to strengthen SSE's communication with mainstream media, seeks opinions and advice from all sides so as to promote the development of SSE work in various aspects. The media officials, positive for the SSE's work, spoke highly of SSE's longstanding media contact and its effort in giving top priority to establishing and perfecting the system favorable for news publicity. Participants at the symposium offered a lot of constructive opinions and advice, after comparing notes on how to strengthen SSE's role in news publicity for a healthy development of the securities market.

Notice of JDCMMC Electronic Offline IPO
26 Mar 2008
All units related to new shares offline issuance, The IPO of Jinduicheng Molybdenum Group Co., Ltd. (JDCMMC) has been approved by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. According to regulations of the "Detailed Rules for Electronic Offline IPO on Shanghai Market", the JDCMMC will adopt electronic offline issuance. Related issues are notified as follows: 1. Electronic offline issuance only opens to eligible inquirees and allotees. Individual investors should still subscribe for new shares through online issuance. 2. To guarantee the smooth electronic offline issuance by the first company, inquirees and allotees participating in the offline issuance of JDCMMC should still log on the SSE's IPO electronic offline subscription platform (shortened hereafter as "subscription platform") with their user passwords of the database. 3. Inquirees should set up the custom end software according to the "Instructions for Setup & Configuration of Customer End of SSE IPO Electronic Offline Subscription Platform". Within the period of preliminary inquiry and offline issuance announced by the issuers, the inquirees can log on the customer end of the subscription platform with their SSE-released database customers (trader code) and logging passwords, to participate in the preliminary inquiry and quotation as well as the accumulative bidding inquiry, quotation and subscription. IV. For the schedule of and other remarks on the issuance, please refer to the "Announcement on Arrangement for IPO of A Shares and Preliminary Inquiry" and the "Announcement on Offline IPO of A Shares". V. For electronic policies and regulations of offline issuance and other business notices, please refer to the special column of electronic offline issuance on the SSE website (www.sse.com.cn). Telephone numbers for technical support of subscription platform: 4008888400 ext. 8003, 021-68800406, 021-68804225, and 021-68803316； Telephone numbers for business support of electronic offline issuance: 021-68806289, 021-68804229. Shanghai Stock Exchange March 26, 2008

CSI HK Index to Be Launched for Overseas Development
14 Mar 2008
China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI)'s recent use of securities market information of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange to develop and calculate CSI HK Index, under the authorization of HKEx Information Services Limited, means that the CSI Indices System will expand to the Hong Kong market from the mainland market. As the core index of the system, CSI HK 100 index will be the first to be launched soon. With the development of the capital market, the mainland and Hong Kong markets have established an increasingly close relationship. After implementation of the QDII system, the Hong Kong market has been the oversea market attracting the eyeballs of mainland investors, as well as the major investment objects of institutional investors such as QDII and the like. To better serve investors at home and aboard and improve the CSI's influence and competitiveness on the international market, the CSI is making great efforts to introduce the index service to the Hong Kong market. The upcoming CSI HK 100 Index is composed of the 100 most representative stocks on the Hong Kong market, with the aim of developing the index as an accurate pointer for understanding the Hong Kong market, an effective tool for analyzing and evaluating the Hong Kong market, and a good target for tracing the investment on the Hong Kong market. It is known that some domestic and oversea institutions have developed and prepared for introducing relevant investment products of the CSI HK 100 Index. As a joint professional index provider established by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), the CSI, supported by the information and technology resources advantages of the SSE and the SZSE, have successively compiled and published, since the CSI foundation on September 2005, the CSI scale indices series composed of 6 indices, such as the SHSE-SZSE300 Index, CSI100 Index and CSI500 Index; the industry indices series composed of 10 indices, such as the CSI 300 Energy index and the CSI 300 Financials index; as well as the CSI style indices series composed of 4 indices, such as the CSI 300 Growth Index and the CSI 300 Value Index. A preliminary A Share indices system has been established now. In addition, the CSI, at the beginning of 2008, published the bonds indices series composed of 8 indices like the CSI Aggregate Bond Index, as well as the fund indices series composed of 4 indices such as the CSI Open-end Fund Index. Now as many as 34 indices are included in the CSI indices system. The compilation and publication of the CSI HK Index is a great leap in the CSI business development. With the globalization of the investors' investment needs, the CSI's product service will further develop to the overseas and other markets.

SSE to Hold Qualification Training for Independent Directors
06 Mar 2008
Undertaken by Shanghai National Accounting Institute (SNAI), the Shanghai Stock Exchange's 7th qualification training course for independent directors of listed companies will be open to the public from March 29 to April 1 in Shanghai. Professionals, listed companies' directors and all those with a knowledge of listed companies' operations, relevant rules and regulations in line with the "Corporation Law" and other regulations can sign in for the course. Upon completion of the courses and the examination, the trainees will be awarded the "Course Complete Certificate of Qualification Training for Independent Directors of Listed Companies", with their name and relevant information recorded in the "Talent Bank for Independent Directors of Listed Companies" of the China Securities Regulatory Commission. For training notice and registration, please visit the SNAI website of www.snai.edu.

Notice of Listing of 2008 Book-entry (Phase II) Treasury Bonds
04 Mar 2008
All fixed income platform traders, According to the "Circular of the Ministry of Finance on Issuance of 2008 Book-entry (Phase II) Treasury Bonds" (Cai Ku [2008] No.16) and relevant requirements of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), the 2008 book-entry (Phase II) treasury bonds (the bonds) will be listed on the SSE comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities on March 6, 2008. Related issues are hereby notified as follows: I. The bonds are 15-year bonds of fixed interest rate, with the coupon rate of 4.16% and the interest paid semiannually. The dated date for the bonds is February 28, 2008, and the interest is paid every February 28 and August 28 (postponed every holiday). The principal will be repaid and the last-term interest be paid on February 28, 2023. II. The bonds will be listed on the SSE comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities on March 6, 2008, with the trading ways of spot and repo. III. The name of the spot securities to be listed is "08 Treasury Bonds 02", with the code of "019802". Shanghai Stock Exchange March 3, 2008

State Council Appoints CSRC Vice Chair, Assistant to Chair
29 Feb 2008
The State Council has recently appointed Yao Gang Vice Chair of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and Zhu Congjiu Assistant to Chair of the CSRC. With the permission of the Organization Department of the CPC Central Committee, Zhu has been appointed Member of the CSRC CPC Committee.

SSE Founds Investor Orientation Department
29 Feb 2008
The Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has recently set up an Investor Orientation Department to continuously commit itself to better investor orientation activities. Such a measure will facilitate the specialization and regularization of the investor orientation activities. As early as October 2000, the SSE took the lead to establish its "Investor Orientation Center". The present establishment of the Investor Orientation Department marks the SSE's endeavor in promoting orientation of investors. It is the main responsibilities of the new department to: • work out some investor orientation schemes and carry out regular orientation activities toward the public investors; • provide SSE's listed companies and members with the training of laws and regulations, self-regulatory rules, new products and services in the securities market, and improve their awareness of their responsibility of voluntarily educating and protecting investors and enhance their capabilities of fulfilling such responsibility; and • plan, coordinate and promote the SSE's market services, and make the investor orientation become an indispensable part of the market services. According to an SSE's official, the SSE, as a forerunner in investor orientation, has accumulated some experience and made some initial achievement thanks to years' exploration and practice. In 2008, the first year in which the newly founded department will independently run, its work will be focused on the following 4 aspects: • analyze different investors' needs and evaluate the effect of investor orientation; • define the relationship and work division between the agencies of China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), securities associations, listed companies and securities companies in their commitment to investor orientation; • establish a sound mechanism for the coordination with the CSRC's agencies and securities associations and for information sharing, and set up a mechanism to monitor the performance of member companies and listed companies in investor orientation and services; and • integrate available market resources, especially the market participants and social institutions, and build and optimize the investor orientation platform and network.

Promote Investors' Orientation by Exerting Advantage and Fulfilling Function
29 Feb 2008
In October 2000, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) took a lead in establishing the Investor Orientation Service by setting up special posts and appointing special persons to engage in investors' orientation. In February 2008, the SSE is again one step ahead of others in building Investor Orientation Department for further realizing the specialization, institutionalization and regularization of investors' orientation, which arouses wide concern in the industry. In an interview with the Shanghai Securities News, an SSE official of the Investor Orientation Department detailed the move's background and purposes as well as the vision and keystones of the SSE's investors' orientation. Q: Would you please introduce the background and reasons for establishing the Investor Orientation Department? A: China's capital market has achieved remarkable progresses in recent years. In addition to the development of the capital market, the CPC Central Committee and the State Council also pay special attentions to the protection of investors' legitimate rights and interests to reinforce investors' orientation. In order to safeguard the healthy, steady and sustainable development of China's capital market, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), as the administrative organ on the securities market, has been attaching great importance to investors' orientation, especially the risk alert of individual investors with small or medium amount of capital. Chairman Shang Fulin deeply expatiated the imminence and reality of developing investors' orientation under new circumstances at the symposium on investors' orientation held in last September, defining the keystones and tasks of investors' orientation of the whole industry in the near future. Exchanges are required to perseveringly bring their own advantages into full play and cooperate with the CRSC to develop investors' orientation. The SSE summarized its investors' orientation work over past years in such a background, and the SSE CPC Committee has decided to set up the Investor Orientation Department in the middle of February to further deepen all-round development of investors' orientation. Therefore, the specialization, institutionalization and regularization of investors' orientation will provide potent organizational preparation and personnel safeguard for further promoting the SSE's investors' orientation. The set-up of the Investor Orientation Department will intensify the orientation of investors, breed rational investors and promote the mature development of the SSE. The SSE's market construction has made breakthrough progress in recent years with market scale, trading volume, raised funds, and new accounts opened by investors all hitting new highs in 2007 and their international ranks surging. However, it is clear that the SSE is still an emerging and transitional market and lags behind the fixed targets of well-constructed blue chip market, especially lacking mature and rational investors. The development experiences of domestic and foreign capital markets prove that investors are the foundation for the markets to survival and development. The maturity of investors is the major driving force and indicator of market maturity, and mature investors will bring up mature markets. The development experiences of domestic and foreign capital markets also prove that the establishment of rational and mature investors group is a long-term and flexural course, which requests all market participants to unremittingly carry out effective market orientation. Hence, securities exchange, as the organizer, manager and frontline supervisor of securities trading, undoubtedly is a key force and should play an important role. The SSE's establishment of the Investor Orientation Department for realizing the specialization, institutionalization and regularization of investors' orientation is to play its role and promote itself to be a rational and mature blue chip market as soon as possible, with an aim to drive the healthy, steady and sustainable development of China's capital market. Q: What is the major function of the newly built Investor Orientation Department? How to comprehend the basic connotation of "investors' orientation"? A: The major function of the Investor Orientation Department is to organize, coordinate and promote the SSE's investors' orientation from the perspective of the overall situation of the SSE market development according to the unified deployment of the CSRC. It is the main responsibilities of the new department to: • work out some investor education schemes and carry out regular education activities toward the public investors; • provide SSE's listed companies and members with the training of laws and regulations, self-regulatory rules, new products and services in the securities market, and improve their awareness of their responsibility of voluntarily educating and protecting investors and enhance their capabilities of fulfilling such responsibility; and • plan, coordinate and promote the SSE's market services, and make the investor education become an indispensable part of the market services. The term "investors' orientation", being widely used in foreign mature market and generally accepted in China, basically is a concept established by usage. That's why the SSE names the new department "Investor Orientation Department". As far as we know, "investors' orientation" is rich and profound in meanings and connotation and more complicated than its literal meaning of educating and lecturing investors. "Investors' orientation" is considered to take on the following three basic connotations: Firstly, from the perspective of the final goal, investors' orientation aims to protect investors' rights and interests. The relation between investors' orientation and protection is that between measure and purpose. Investors' orientation is a long-term, basic and systematic project for protecting investors' interests. It must be subject to and serve the basic goal of investors' protection with practical education and actions. The SSE's investors' orientation will be developed around the protection of investors' rights; Secondly, from the perspective of the fundamental task, investors' orientation should attach importance to the breed of rational and mature investors. Individual investors account for a majority of the securities trading participants, and it is difficult to change the structure temporarily on the emerging and transitional market. Compared with mature market and institutional investors, individual investors are short of laws, regulations and basic knowledge necessary to securities investment, risk awareness of securities trading, mature investment concept and self-protect ability. The SSE will make effort to play active role in cultivating rational and healthy stock market culture and speeding up the maturity of market and investors through continuous and effective investors' orientation; Thirdly, from the perspective of principle that function takes effect, investors' self-education is an indispensable part of investors' orientation. As investors' orientation is an external force, whether its function can be played finally depends greatly on whether it can be converted to investors' internal demand. Thus, investors will be led to actively participate in education and voluntarily receive education, ultimately opening up a prospect of self-education by investors on their own initiative. The SSE's investors' orientation will persist in the principles of service and induction and mobilize the subjective initiative of all investors, with an aim to create conditions and provide convenience for investors' voluntary participation in market education and their self-education. Q: What will be the vision of the SSE's investors' orientation in the near future? A: The SSE defines the basic vision of its investors' orientation in the near future on the basis of the set-up background of the Investor Orientation Department and the comprehension of the basic connotations of investors' orientation, i.e., according to the unified deployment of the CSRC and from the perspective of the overall situation of the SSE market development, the SSE will take its own advantages and fulfill its function, as well as actively explore the regulation, methods and ways of investors' orientation under the new situation, with emphasis on securities market and trading and with its goal to protect the investors' interests. In this way, the SSE will make efforts to foster rational and mature securities trading participants, to contribute to the health, harmonious and sustainable development of China's capital market. Q: The SSE's major responsibility is to organize and manage securities trading. How about the position of investors' orientation in this responsibility? A: As an important organizer, manager and front-line regulator of China's securities market, the SSE always takes investors' orientation and investors' interests protection as part of its function. On the one hand, since investors' orientation is a fundamental and regular task, it must be implemented in the daily securities trading organization and management; on the other hand, if investors' orientation operates well, the investors will be increasingly mature, and the market risk will be lowered. All these advantages will provide good market foundation and external environment for the SSE to well organize and manage securities trading. The two aspects infiltrate and stimulate each other. Therefore, investors' orientation should be put into effect. Thus, in the future, we will try to realize "four combination": the 1st is the combination of investors' orientation and system construction—designing the market standard and fundamental system suitable for investors' orientation and securities trading risk disclosure; the 2nd is the combination of investors' orientation and frontline supervision—sticking to investors' orientation and protecting investors' value orientation while taking supervision measures and warning securities trading risks; the 3rd is the combination of investors' orientation and market innovation—deploying, planning and implementing investors' orientation together with innovation of products and trading mechanism; the 4th is the combination of investors' orientation and investors' complaint treatment—improving the SSE letter visits reception and complaint treatment mechanism, seriously answering investors' consultation and questions, hearing investors' opinions and suggestions, well treating problems reflected by investors, and continuously enhancing the SSE market service and investors' orientation. Q: What achievements have the SSE investors' orientation made in the past several years? How will the task bring forth the fresh in the future? A: The SSE investors' orientation began early. Through several years' exploration and practice, it has achieved some experience and periodical effect. From an overall perspective, in the past several years, we can constantly deepen the recognition of the fundamental role and important function of investors' orientation in the capital market development and seriously carry out the unified deployment of the CSRC. Meanwhile, we can also actively take our advantages, integrate the industry resources, and preliminarily establish an extensive orientation platform for investors; according to the market development demands and the CSRC's unified deployment, we can also enrich and adjust the contents of investors' orientation, innovate orientation ways and hold a series of influential orientation activities. The SSE investors' orientation has made some achievements, but it is still in initial period. The SSE investors' orientation still lags behind rapid development situation and trend of the SSE market and investors' orientation of exchanges in the oversea mature market in the orientation ways and effect. Specifically, the orientation ways and contents cannot meet investors' increasingly diversified internal demands. At the same time, the orientation's regularity, continuity, pertinence and effect all need to be improved. In the future, to promote and deepen the SSE investors' orientation, we will take measures in the following aspects: Firstly, we will take the establishment of the Investors Orientation Department as a chance to hold discussions on the theme of investors' orientation in the whole exchange. Thus, we will further unify the recognition of the necessity and importance of investors' orientation in the whole exchange, and enhance the go-aheadism of the staff's participation and support in investors' orientation. Secondly, we will stick to the principle of "educators should be educated first" and enhance the vocational education and post training of the staff from the Investors Orientation Department, to establish an investors' orientation team which knows well the market and business and love the work. Thirdly, we will summarize the experience and shortage in investors' orientation for several years, refer to exchanges' successful experience in implementing investors' orientation in mature markets. In view of the reality of China's securities market, we will actively explore the regulation and ways of implementing investors' orientation under new situation, to enhance and improve the orientation effect. Q: How will the newly established Investors Orientation Department carry out its work? A: 2008 is the 1st year for the Investors Orientation Department to independently carry out its work after its establishment. Since investors' orientation is fundamental, long-term and systematical, it's impossible to accomplish it in an action or get effect instantly. Therefore, we need unremittingly carry out it in proper sequence. A good beginning is half done. The Investors Orientation Department will continue to carry out the CSRC's unified deployment, serve for the SSE work overall situation, as well as hold all kinds of investors' orientation activity suitable for all actual requirements. Meanwhile, the SSE will attach much importance to constructing and consolidating operational foundation and long-term mechanism of investors' orientation in the following four aspects: The first is to get a good knowledge of the market situation. Through questionnaire survey on needs for investors' orientation and case studies, we will sort and analyze different conditions and actual needs of various investors, to evaluate the investors' orientation effect and lay foundation for working out investors' orientation plan and carrying out specific orientation activity. The second is to rationalize the external relationship. Under the basic structure of the CRSC's unified organization and promotion in investors' orientation of the whole industry, the SSE will define the relationship and work division between the SSE and the CSRC agencies, the Securities Association of China, listed companies and securities companies. We will find our advantages and positions of function and seize the work emphases. The third is to improve the operational mechanism. From the perspective of the SSE investors' orientation advantages, function and position, the SSE will actively construct the coordination and linkage and information sharing mechanism with the CSRC agencies and the Securities Association of China; the SSE will actively explore the feasibility and realization way of bringing the SSE member companies and listed companies into the SSE investors' orientation system, to establish the supervision and examination mechanism which promotes member companies and listed companies to fulfill investors' orientation and service responsibility; the SSE will continue to strengthen the communication with all medium and improve the informing and cooperation mechanism. The fourth is to integrate the market resources. On the basis of taking the SSE own resources advantages, the SSE will further play the role as the market force and social institution, integrating various effective market resources. In this way, the SSE will build and optimize orientation platform and network for investors, extending the coverage of investors' orientation.

Management Change of SSE, SZSE by CRSC
29 Feb 2008
The China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) has recently appointed Zhang Yujun Vice Party Secretary and General Manager of the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and Song Liping Vice Party Secretary and General Manager of the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE). Zhu Congjiu is dismissed from the positions of SSE Vice Party Secretary and General Manager, and Zhang Yujun from the positions of SZSE Vice Party Secretary and General Manager.

SSE's XBRL Financial Listed Company Taxonomies Acknowledged by XBRL International
20 Feb 2008
On February 13, 2008, the XBRL-based financial listed company taxonomy formulated by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) was "Acknowledged" by the XBRL International. The acknowledgement information has been released on the official website of the XBRL International (http://www.xbrl.org/FRTaxonomies/XBRL). All the technical documents of the taxonomy have been published on the SSE website of http://xbrl-cn.org to the public for wider application. Shanghai Stock Exchange February 2008

New Evaluation Ways Explored for Service Satisfaction Survey
15 Feb 2008
To promote the overall service improvement, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), from December 1 to 12, 2007, carried out the questionnaire survey on satisfaction to service quality of five business departments (the Membership Department, the Listed Company Department, the Bonds and Funds Department, Shanghai Stock Communication Co., Ltd. and SSE InfoNet Ltd.). To guarantee the objectivity and professionalism of the survey, the SSE firstly engaged a professional survey company (Shanghai Horizonkey Information and Data Co., Ltd.) to do whole-process survey as well as data collection and analysis. According to the survey report, 1,063 service objects (including securities companies, listed companies, fund management companies and bond issuance subjects) in total participated in the questionnaire survey. In view of its broad coverage, the survey is representative. The satisfaction score given by the above service objects is 91.39, claiming that they are satisfied with the service provided by the SSE. However, some item's score is a little low, which reveals our weakness and points out the direction for improvement. Besides, the service objects proposed 175 opinions and suggestions, especially in the aspects of strengthening business training, promoting industry exchange and optimizing the working process. The SSE leaders attach much attention to the above opinions and suggestions, and instruct relevant departments to adopt workable measures. The survey on satisfaction to service is the SSE's initiative in the service evaluation and supervision mechanism. The industry confirmed the SSE's hearing the market participants' opinions and suggestions in objective manner. Through the service satisfaction survey, we found out our problems and weakness and obtained some experience in the survey methods. From now on, the SSE will try to establish a systematic and normalized service quality control and supervision system, to scientifically and reasonably evaluate service quality and improve the SSE service.

Constituents of SSE 180 Financial Index Adjusted
13 Feb 2008
The business category of Chengdu Urban Construction Investment & Development Co., Ltd. (with the stock code of 600109) is changed from real estate to securities after it merged Sinolink Securities Co., Ltd. According to the index rules, it will be taken into the SSE 180 Financial Index from February 13, 2008, and the upper limit factor of weight of constituents of SSE 180 Financial Index will be modified correspondingly. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. February 13, 2008

Urgent Notice of Adjusting Testing Arrangement after 2008 Spring Festival
04 Feb 2008
All member units, To ensure the normal trading after the holiday, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), considering the recent weather condition, will adjust the date for system testing from February 12, 2008 (Tuesday) to February 11, 2008 (Monday) from 13:00 to 15:30. It will provide member companies with linkage testing environment for the trading systems, including the trading system, the block trading system and the comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities. All members are required to participate in the testing and report the testing results to the SSE though its external website (Member Section -> Online Report -> Online Investigation & Feedback) before 17:00 on the testing day. The telephone number for testing technology is 021-58651399, and that for testing results is 021-68803715. The time for connectivity testing remains February 12, 2008 (Tuesday) from 09:30 to 12:00, and the SSE will provide linkage testing environment for the trading systems. Please make relevant arrangements according to the notice. Shanghai Stock Exchange February 4, 2008

CSI Fund Index to Be Launched
01 Feb 2008
China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) has recently announced that it will officially launch the CSI Fund Index Series on February 4, 2008. The series include four indices, including the CSI Open-end Fund Index and three sector indices, namely, the CSI Stock Fund Index, the CSI Hybrid Fund Index and the CSI Bond Fund Index. The base day of the indices is December 31, 2002, with the base point of 1,000. Reflecting the overall performance of China's open-end fund market, the CSI Fund Index Series will provide investors with more analysis tools and performance appraisal benchmark. According to the published construction scheme, one of the four indices, i.e., the CSI Open-end Fund Index, is a composite index. Its constituents are composed of all the open-end funds on the current market (excluding currency funds and principal guaranteed funds). The other three, namely, the CSI Stock Fund Index, the CSI Hybrid Fund Index and the CSI Bond Fund Index, are sector indices. Their constituents are composed of stock funds, hybrid funds and bond funds, respectively, in the constituents of the CSI Open-end Fund Index. The CSI Fund Index Series adopt simple weighted average method for calculation and take measures of temporary and periodical adjustment concerning significant events. For details of the index compilation method, please refer to relevant announcements. By January 30, 2008, the CSI Open-end Fund Index, with 265 constituents, closed at 4,557.03 points, up 355.70% from the base day. The CSI Stock Fund Index, the CSI Hybrid Fund Index and the CSI Bond Fund Index, with 140, 92 and 33 constituents, respectively, closed at 5,583.55, 4,968.33 and 1,534.27, up 458.36%, 396.83% and 53.43% from the base day, respectively. Investors can access the above data on the CSI's website (www.csindex.com.cn), the CSI Index Data Service Platform and domestic and overseas data service providers.

CSI Bond Index Series Taking Shape as CSI Sector Bond Indices Launched on Dec. 28
28 Jan 2008
China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) announced today the formal release of three CSI sector bond indices of the CSI T-bond Index, the CSI Financial Bond Index and the CSI Enterprise Bond Index. The constituents of the CSI T-bond Index, the CSI Financial Bond Index and the CSI Enterprise Bond Index are composed of eligible treasury bonds, financial bonds, and enterprise bonds on the inter-bank market and the exchanges, respectively, to comprehensively reflect the overall performance of treasury bonds, financial bonds, and enterprise bonds on China's bond market. In January 2008, the three sector bond indices consist of 71, 101 and 200 constituents, respectively. The base day of the three sector bond indices is December 31, 2002, with the base point of 100. The CSI T-bond Index, the CSI Financial Bond Index and the CSI Enterprise Bond Index closed on January 24, 2008 at 111.72, 114.43, and 113.35, up 11.72%, 14.43% and 13.35% from the base day, respectively. In addition to the closing quotation, the CSI has also published such indicators as the yield to maturity and the duration of the sector bond indices, and released the data of term structure, the indices' historical data and historical constituents, etc. The CSI announced the formal release of the CSI Aggregate Bond Index and its four sub-indexes of bonds of different years on December 17, 2007. The release of the three sector bond indices of the CSI T-bond Index, the CSI Financial Bond Index and the CSI Enterprise Bond Index will contribute to widening the scope of selection of comparison benchmark for investment on the China's bond market. Investors can access the above data on the CSI's website (www.csindex.com.cn), the SSE Fixed Income Platform, the Wind (www.wind.com.cn) or the Reuters. After operating for some time, the CSI sector bond indices will be available for the market through the exchange's satellite system. For details of the CSI sector bond indices, please refer to the CSI website. [CSI Sector Bond Indices to Be Launched]

SSE: Securities Information Management Regulation to Be Formulated
25 Jan 2008
Cosponsored by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and the East China University of Political Science and Law (ECUPL), the "Symposium on Legal Protection of Securities Information Rights and Interests" was held on January 22, 2008 to discuss the legal protection of securities information rights and interests under the new development trend of securities market. Attending the meeting were leaders, experts and scholars from 10 units including the Legislative Affairs Office of the State Council, the National Copyright Administration of the People's Republic of China, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, the China Financial Futures Exchange, the Shanghai Futures Exchange, relevant courts in Shanghai, the Shanghai Municipal Informatization Commission, as well as some universities and law firms. ECUPL Vice President Gu Gongyun pointed out at the meeting that securities information rights and interests protection, different from traditional ownership, is currently a new subject. The experts and scholars from the theoretical and frontline fields, invited by the SSE to the meeting, will contribute to the perfection of the legal protection mechanism of securities information. However, securities information operation on the emerging Chinese securities market should, according to SSE Vice-President Zhou Qinye, who acknowledged SSE's marked progress in recent years, make its own contribution to the development of the securities market and the SSE. The SSE has invested a lot in software and hardware for securities services. It not only improves the market transparency and keeps the information secret, but also leaves a leeway for industrialization of information services. It is high time that securities information rights called for legislation and judicature guarantees. The meeting, which kicked off with FTSE Xinhua Index Ltd. (FTSE Xinhua) as a case study, discussed the legal issues concerning the protection of securities information rights and interests in all dimensions. The case is the dispute over the license contract on securities information. FTSE Xinhua lost lawsuits of the first and second instances, thus attracting much attention. Based on their revision and summary, some judges and lawyers analyzed the disputable point, treatment consideration and ruling basis. Referring to the case, scholars at the meeting, from different perspectives of domestic and oversea legislation, judicature, theory and practice, exchanged views on the necessity, flexibility and ways of protection of securities information and also the balance between securities information rights and interests protection and public interests. Experts agreed that securities information, the intellectual result produced with much capital and innovative effort, should not be treated the same as public or non-commercial information at large. Under the current legal environment, securities market information can be protected in accordance with copyright of compilation. After regulation concerning database protection is formulated, securities market information can be protected as database. Meanwhile, securities information rights in all dimensions should be protected by various means, such as legal, contract and technique methods. Under the fair and paid principle, efforts should be made to achieve balance between exchanges' securities information right protection and public responsibility fulfillment. Assistant to SSE General Manager Xu Ming summed up in his concluding speech at the meeting that with the fierce competition among exchanges all over the world and the trend of lowering trading costs, securities information has become an important resource of the exchanges. On an emerging and transitional market, it is of great significance to protect securities information rights and interests in China. Authorities, exchanges and market participants have reached agreement on this point. At present, securities information rights and interests protection is still weak, and the relief means is inadequate. Legislative, judicial administrative protection and self-regulation call for reinforcement. Meanwhile, experts proposed their original views, providing important theoretical support for perfection of the protection mechanism of securities information rights and interests. Finally, in view of urgent need in the current practice, Xu suggests further clarifying Item 113 in the "Securities Law" in the way of judicial interpretation to define the securities information rights on the legal level as the exclusive right. Meanwhile, the SSE will formulate securities information management regulations and define the securities information scope, use, dissemination and supervision. In endowing and guaranteeing rights, the SSE should reasonably set the obligee's obligation to achieve balance between securities information right protection and exchanges' public responsibility fulfillment.

Notice of Issuing "Detailed Rules for Electronic Offline IPO on Shanghai Market"
23 Jan 2008
All units related to new shares offline issuance, To rationalize the electronic offline IPO of companies who plan to list on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), the China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited, together with the SSE and the Securities Association of China, formulated the "Detailed Rules for Electronic Offline IPO on Shanghai Market" (shortened hereafter as "Detailed Rules") according to the requirements of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). The "Detailed Rules" has been approved by the CSRC and is hereby publicized. Listed companies are required to follow the "Detailed Rules". Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited Securities Association of China January 21, 2008

Notice of Applying for CA Certificate for SSE Electronic Offline Subscription Platform
23 Jan 2008
All inquirers and lead underwriters, The "Detailed Rules for Electronic Offline IPO on Shanghai Market" stipulates that inquirers and lead underwriters participating in the electronic offline IPO should apply for CA certificates for electronic offline subscription platform (shortened hereafter as "subscription platform"). Related issues are hereby notified as follows: I. Applicants for CA certificates Securities companies with sponsor''s qualification (lead underwriters) and registered inquirers at the Securities Association of China II. Application materials 1. Institutions applying for CA certificates for the subscription platform should fill in the "Application Form of CnSCA Digital Certificate (For Electronic Offline Subscription Platform)" (Attachment I); 2. Institutions applying first time for CA certificates issued by SSE Infonet Limited should, in addition, submit the "Responsibility Agreement on CnSCA Digital Certificate Application" (Attachment II); 3. The above two documents should be signed and sealed by the legal persons of the institutions. III. Application methods 1. Please submit the above application materials to the coordinators for the electronic offline subscription training class, co-sponsored on January 25, 2008 by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), together with the China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited; 2. Those who should fail to submit the above materials are required to send them to the SSE by EMS no later than January 31, 2008. The recipient information is as follows: (1). Lead underwriters are required to send the above materials to the following address: Add: SSE Listed Company Department, 528 South Pudong Road, Shanghai Postcode: 200120 Contact person: Yang Shaohua Tel: 021-68806289 (2). Inquirers are required to send the above materials to the following address: Add: SSE Infonet Limited, 528 South Pudong Road, Shanghai Postcode: 200120 Contact person: Zou Huajun Tel: 021-68814725 3. After the above application materials are examined and approved by related SSE departments, SSE Infonet Limited will issue the digital certificates according to the application forms. The SSE will, upon the completion of the certificates, tell the legmen of the applicants to fetch the CA certificates; 4. Institutions having double identities of inquirers and lead underwriters should fill in the materials and apply for the certificates respectively. IV. Others The SSE plans to conduct the overall online testing of electronic offline issuance concerning all lead underwriters, inquirers and allotment objects on January 31, 2008 (CA certificates not required in the overall online testing). Institutions, which submit the above application materials to the training class on January 25, 2008, are eligible for the user''s names for subscription platform testing and codes on site. Participants can join in the overall online testing on January 31, 2008 with the user''s names and codes. The SSE will soon issue the notice of the overall online testing. Please pay attention to the special column of electronic offline issuance on the SSE website (www.sse.com.cn). Tel of the SSE Listed Company Department: 021-68804229, 021-68806289 SSE Infonet Limited: Digital certificate application tel: 021-68814725 Digital certificate use and support tel: 021-58654194 SSE Trading Management Department SSE Listed Company Department

Public Bidding Invitation for 19th SSE Joint Research Plan
22 Jan 2008
To accelerate securities market's opening up and market innovation, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) has run 18 SSE Joint Research Plans. The plans aim to make full use of relevant domestic and foreign research resources, make intensive research on hot and advanced topics of China's securities market, improve market research, and promote exchange of excellent research results. All this is to provide independent, rational, high-level, forward-looking policy suggestions and implementation schemes for the development of China's securities market. To ensure the accessibility to the bidders and enhance the quality and efficiency of the research plan, the SSE seeks bidders from home and abroad for research topics. Major research topics of the 19th SSE Joint Research Plan include: 1. Reform of securities issuance mechanism; 2. Innovation of products and trading mechanism; 3. Influence on the market by fund investment behavior; 4. Research on issues about QDII; 5. Listed companies' information disclosure; 6. Influence on the market by ban-lift of shares with sales limit; 7. Other significant issues on the securities market. Applicants should submit application form and specific research plan on the suggested topics prior to the deadline on February 5. The submitted materials include research scope, research significance, existing research works, research outline, expected result, brief introduction of project group staff, research schedule, research method and research expenditures. The SSE will, after the deadline, finalize the undertaker for selected topics according to research strength and plan of applicants. Institutional applicants can download the application form at the SSE website (http://www.sse.com.cn), or contact the SSE Research Center via telephone, fax, email, etc. Liaisons: Lu Wenying, Zhang Weidong Tel: 68800095，68800094 Fax: 021-68813828 Email: expert3@sse.com.cn. Shanghai Stock Exchange January 22, 2008 [Application Form of SSE Joint Research Plan Subject]

CSI 300 Style Index Launched Today
21 Jan 2008
The CSI 300 Style Index, the construction scheme of which was announced by China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) on January 8, 2008, is officially released today upon soft operation for a period. The index series include four indices, namely, the CSI 300 Growth Index, the CSI 300 Value Index, the CSI 300 Relative Growth Index and the CSI 300 Relative Value Index. The base day of the indices is December 31, 2004, with the base point of 1,000. Investors can learn the indices' performance from the market terminals including Qianlong, Great Wisdom, Reuters and Bloomberg or visit the Shanghai Stock Exchange's or the CSI's website for details. According to the published index scheme, the CSI 300 Style Index Series will adopt 7 factors to measure a company's growth and value. Factors that measure the growth include the growth rate of major business income in the past 3 years, the growth rate of net profit and the internal growth rate in the past 3 years (internal growth rate = return on net assets [1 - dividend payment rate]). Factors that measure the value include the dividend yield (D/P), net asset value per share/price (B/P), net cash flow per share/price (CF/P) and earning per share/price (E/P). Both the CSI 300 Growth Index and the CSI 300 Value Index consist of 100 constituents. The former is composed of 100 stocks with the most remarkable growth among the constituents of the SHSE-SZSE300 Index, and the latter 100 stocks with most distinctive value among the constituents. The CSI 300 Relative Growth Index and the CSI 300 Relative Value Index consist of all the constituents of the SHSE-SZSE300 Index. The market capitalization of the constituents is distributed to the CSI 300 Relative Growth Index and the CSI 300 Relative Value Index according to a certain style weight. By January 18, 2008, the CSI 300 Growth Index and the CSI 300 Value Index had increased by 465.38% and 474.63% from the base day, and the CSI 300 Relative Growth Index and the CSI 300 Relative Value Index by 433.60% and 428.87%. At the same period, the increase rate of the SHSE-SZSE300 Index is 441.45%.

SSE "Manual of Directors, Supervisors and Senior Management of Listed Companies" Published
15 Jan 2008
The "Manual of Directors, Supervisors and Senior Management of Listed Companies", compiled by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), has been officially published by Shanghai Jiao Tong University Press. The manual aims to facilitate senior management of listed companies to improve corporate governance and standardize operation under the circumstance of all-floating in China. At present, as most listed companies in China have completed the "equity division" reform, the whole market is stepping into the all-floating era of shares. Each senior management member of listed companies should give top priority to pushing the corporate governance and management to a new height under the new market circumstance. With the arrival of the all-floating era, the market capitalization management is looming as an important issue in the listed companies' management. With the market capitalization management at the core, controlling shareholders, institutional investors and the small and medium shareholders have more common interests. Thus, the interest of senior management will be closely interlinked with that of listed companies and their small and medium shareholders. In the all-floating market, listed companies' assets reorganization, shares infiltration and anti-infiltration, purchase and anti-purchase will become the focus of securities market in the future. Under the new circumstances, apart from the current information disclosure, organizing and holding shareholders' and directorate meetings, the directorate's daily work also covers the management of investors' relationship and the concern for the secondary market. The timely SSE manual, compiled by researchers and experts engaged in frontline supervision over listed companies for long time, including Zhu Congjiu, Zhou Qinye, Liu Shian, Zhou Guoqing and Hu Ruyin, falls into 12 chapters on 1100-odd pages, with about 1 million Chinese characters. The manual, following the dictionary compilation style, classifies the issues according to entry. As a desk book for directors, supervisors and senior managements, the manual is informative and easy for retrieval.

HNP Corporate Bonds to Be Listed on Jan. 15
14 Jan 2008
The 2007 HNP Corporate Bonds (Phase I), issued by Huaneng Power International, Inc. (HNP), will be listed and traded on the SSE auction system and the comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities from January 15, 2008. The total amount of bonds issued this time will be RMB6 billion, including a 5-year product of fixed interest rate with an issuance size of RMB1 billion and the coupon rate of 5.67%, a 7-year one with the size of RMB1.7 billion and the coupon rate of 5.75%, and a 10-year one with the size of RMB3.3 billion and the coupon rate of 5.90%.

Notice of Listing of 2007 HNP Corporate Bonds
14 Jan 2008
The 2007 HNP Corporate Bonds (Phase I), issued by Huaneng Power International, Inc. (HNP), will be listed and traded on the Shanghai Stock Exchange. The total amount of bonds issued this time will be RMB6 billion, including a 5-year product of fixed interest rate with an issuance size of RMB1 billion and the coupon rate of 5.67%, a 7-year one with the size of RMB1.7 billion and the coupon rate of 5.75%, and a 10-year one with the size of RMB3.3 billion and the coupon rate of 5.90%. The bonds will be listed and traded on the SSE auction system and the comprehensive electronic platform of fixed income securities from January 15, 2008. The short description for the 5-year product is "07 HNP G1" and the stock code "122002"; that for the 7-year one is "07 HNP G2" and the stock code "122003"; and that for the 10-year one is "07 HNP G3" and the stock code "122004". The three products, after listing, are all available for general collateral repos. The order and switch-back codes of the pledged bonds are "104002", "104003" and "104004" for the 5-year, 7-year and 10-year products, respectively. Shanghai Stock Exchange January 11, 2008

CSI 300 Style Index to Be Launched
08 Jan 2008
China Securities Index Co., Ltd. (CSI) has recently announced that it will officially launch the CSI 300 Style Index Series on January 21, 2008. The series include four indices, namely, the CSI 300 Growth Index, the CSI 300 Value Index, the CSI 300 Relative Growth Index and the CSI 300 Relative Value Index. The base day of the indices is December 31, 2004, with the base point of 1,000. Further portraying the SHSE-SZSE300 Index from the perspective of style, the CSI 300 Style Index Series will provide investors with new performance benchmark and assets allocation instruments. According to the published index scheme, the CSI 300 Style Index Series will adopt 7 factors to measure a company’s growth and value. Factors that measure the growth include the growth rate of major business income in the past 3 years, the growth rate of net profit and the internal growth rate in the past 3 years (internal growth rate = return on net assets [1 - dividend payment rate]). Factors that measure the value include the dividend yield (D/P), net asset value per share/price (B/P), net cash flow per share/price (CF/P) and earning per share/price (E/P). Both the CSI 300 Growth Index and the CSI 300 Value Index consist of 100 constituents. The former is composed of 100 stocks with the most remarkable growth among the constituents of the SHSE-SZSE300 Index, and the latter 100 stocks with most distinctive value among the constituents. The CSI 300 Relative Growth Index and the CSI 300 Relative Value Index consist of all the constituents of the SHSE-SZSE300 Index. The market capitalization of the constituents is distributed to the CSI 300 Relative Growth Index and the CSI 300 Relative Value Index according to a certain style weight. For details of the index compilation method, please refer to relevant announcements. By January 7, 2008, the total market capitalization of the CSI 300 Growth Index and the CSI 300 Value Index had covered 55.47% and 41.65% of the total of the SHSE-SZSE300 Index, with their floating capitalization accounting for 47.39% and 44.16%, respectively. The total market capitalization of the CSI 300 Relative Growth Index and the CSI 300 Relative Value Index had covered 55.48% and 44.52% of the total, with their floating capitalization accounting for 52.14% and 47.86%, respectively. By January 7, 2008, the CSI 300 Growth Index and the CSI 300 Value Index had increased by 486.94% and 487.07% from the base day, and the CSI 300 Relative Growth Index and the CSI 300 Relative Value Index by 451.61% and 438.38%. At the same period, the increase rate of the SHSE-SZSE300 Index is 455.66%.

Adjustment to Implementation Rules of Free-floating Volume
08 Jan 2008
To further improve the investment value of indices, the Shanghai Stock Exchange and China Securities Index Co., Ltd., upon examination by the Index Expert Commission, have decided to adjust the implementation rules of free-floating volume from February 1, 2008. Change of free-floating volume caused by non-corporate behaviors (such as the ban-lift of "big non-tradable stocks") will be adjusted every half year. The adjustment will take effect from the first trading days of every January and July. Shanghai Stock Exchange China Securities Index Co., Ltd. January 8, 2008

Notice of Doing a Better Job for Disclosing 2007 Annual Reports
03 Jan 2008
All listed companies, To do a better job for disclosing listed companies' annual reports of 2007 and in accordance with regulations in the "Rule No.2 on Content and Format of Information Disclosure of Companies with Securities Issued Publicly – 'Content and Format of Annual Reports'" (Amendment in 2007, hereinafter referred to as the "Rule on 2007 Annual Reports") and the "SSE Stock Listing Rules" (hereinafter referred to as the "Listing Rules"), the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) hereby notifies as follows: 1. The directorates of listed companies should organize relevant personnel to carefully study the "Rule on 2007 Annual Reports", carry out requirements by such notices as the "Notice of Doing a Better Job for Disclosing Listed Companies' 2007 Annual Reports and also Relevant Work" (Zheng Jian Gong Si Zi [2007] No.235) and the "Notice of Doing a Better Job for Information Disclosure of Financial Accounting According to New Accounting Standards" (Zheng Jian Fa [2006] No.136), implement relevant documents newly issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and the SSE, and promptly compile, submit and disclose annual reports of 2007; 2. All companies listed on the SSE before December 31, 2007 should compile, submit and disclose annual reports of 2007 before April 30, 2008. Companies newly listed between January 1 and April 30, 2008 should also disclose their annual reports of 2007 before April 30, 2008 if they don't disclose audited annual performance of 2007 in their listing announcements. Listed companies, if predicting they are unable to do so, should submit written reports to the SSE before April 15, 2008 and announce the reason, solutions and deadline of the postponed disclosure. The SSE will suspend trading of their stocks and derivatives from May 1, 2008, and at the same time publicly criticize the companies and the personnel concerned; 3. According to the principle of balanced disclosure, the SSE, in order to avoid too concentrated disclosure of annual reports of listed companies, will allow a daily maximum of 45 listed companies to disclose their annual reports. Listed companies should, in line with the schedules stipulated with the SSE, arrange their compilation work and timely disclose their annual reports. Schedules for listed companies to disclose their annual reports and any changes will be announced on the SSE's website; 4. The directors, supervisors, senior management and other secrecy-bound personnel should hold secret-keeping obligations during the compilation of annual reports, and they should by no means divulge the contents in any ways before the disclosure. Before annual reports are officially disclosed and if performance is divulged in advance, or abnormal fluctuation happens to trading of stocks or their derivatives because of performance rumors, listed companies should immediately announce unaudited financial data of 2007, including business income, business profit, total profit, net profit, total assets, net assets, earning per share, earning per share excluding extraordinary profit and loss and net assets per share. After disclosing the performance express, if there is significant discrepancy as mentioned in the Chapter XI of the "Listing Rules" between actual performance and performance express, listed companies should promptly announce another performance express to modify the announcements and explain the discrepancy and reason; 5. If listed companies predict negative net profits in 2007 and have not predicted their whole-year performance in the 3rd quarter report of 2007, or a great discrepancy between the predicted whole-year performance and the disclosed performance prediction, they should promptly disclose their announcement on performance prediction or announcement on modification to performance prediction on January 31, 2008 at the latest. Besides, according to the "Listing Rules", listed companies, in light of the above requirement, should also promptly disclose their performance prediction if they predict positive net profits in 2007 with a dramatic year-on-year performance change in net profit. Listed companies, whose comparable base in the same period of last year is low (with the absolute value of earning per share below or equal to RMB0.05 in 2006), can be exempted from this disclosure upon approval by the SSE; and if they disclose their performance prediction, the comparable data of 2006 should also be disclosed at the same time; 6. Listed companies should apply to the SSE for exemption if they are unable to disclose information according to the "Rule on 2007 Annual Reports" due to such special reasons as commercial secrets. Moreover, they should detail the reasons for not performing relevant requirements. Upon approval by the SSE, companies can be exempted from information disclosure, but they should give the reasons in relevant chapters of annual reports; 7. Listed companies should formulate and disclose their adjusted income statements in the same period of last year and the balance sheets at the beginning of 2007 in accordance with relevant regulations in the "Q&A No.7 on Information Disclosure Regulations for Companies Offering their Securities to the Public - Comparing Information Compilation and Disclosure of Financial Accounting during Transition Period of Old and New Accounting Standards" (Q&A No.7). Besides, they should also disclose the reconciliation statements of profit discrepancy in the same period of last year in the annotations of financial statements according to the Q&A No.7, and list the retroactive adjustments to the income statements in the same period of last year; Meanwhile, listed companies, in accordance with the "Interpretation No.1 to Accounting Standards for Enterprises" (Cai Kuai [2007] No.14), should disclose in lists the adjustments to owners' equity at the beginning of the year, the modified items, the affected amount and the reasons in the annotations of financial statements; 8. In the process of listing the major accounting data and financial indicators in the full texts of annual reports and their abstracts, data in the comparable base period for calculation of increase or decrease of major accounting data and financial indicators should be pursuant to relevant data in the adjusted financial statements compiled according to the Q&A No.7. Data at the end of 2005 and 2006 in the balance sheets of texts 3.1 and 3.2 in the full texts of annual reports and their abstracts should be pursuant to relevant data in the adjusted balance sheets at the beginning of 2006 and 2007 compiled according to the Q&A No.7; data of 2006 in the income statements and cash flow statements should be pursuant to relevant data in the adjusted income statements and cash flow statements of 2006 compiled according to the Q&A No.7. Besides, relevant data and financial indicators of 2005 should be adjusted and disclosed according to the compilation caliber of comparable financial data of the Q&A No.7; 9. Listed companies, making profits in 2007 but having no scheme of cash profit distribution, should present reasons in the announcements on directorate resolutions that discuss and approve the annual reports, and make clear the usage and usage plan for the undistributed profits; 10. When auditing listed companies' annual financial reports, certified public accountants should issue special remarks on listed companies' existing capital occupation by controlling shareholders and other affiliated parties in line with the regulations of the "Notice of Some Issues on Regulating Fund Transfer Between Listed Companies and Related Parties and Outward Guarantee Provided by Listed Companies" (Zheng Jian Fa [2003] No.56). Listed companies are also required to disclose special remarks on the SSE's website when releasing the annual reports. Listed companies with capital occupation by major shareholders and their affiliated enterprises for non-operational purpose should make additional disclosure of the occupation date, amount, causes, persons in charge and their directorates' solutions in the "Creditor's Rights and Liabilities between Related Parties" in the "Significant Events" in the full texts of their annual reports and the 7.4.3 "listed Companies' Capital Occupation and Clearing Progress in 2007" in the annual report abstracts; 11. According to requirements of the CSRC and the SSE, listed companies should, combining their internal control mechanism construction, explain their internal control mechanism and its establishment and improvement in the "Significant Events" in the full texts of their annual reports of 2007. Listed companies are encouraged to disclose the directorates' self-evaluation reports of the internal control and the opinions of auditing institutions; 12. If directors, supervisors, senior management and shareholders with more than 5% shares in the company are suspected of irregular purchase and sale of shares during the reporting period, or such suspected irregularities happen and the profits from them are disclosed to be withdrawn by the companies, listed companies should disclose the time and amount of the profits withdrawn by the directorates in the "Significant Events" in the full texts of their annual reports; 13. After certified public accountants issue auditing report, listed companies should complete compilation of the annual reports within two working days and submit the following documents to the SSE within two working days after the directorates approve the annual reports: 1) The full text of the annual report of 2007 (including the audited annual financial report) and its abstract (one copy for each) signed by the current legal person representative and sealed by the company; 2) The resolutions of the directorate, the written confirmation of the annual report of 2007 signed by directors and the senior management, and special remarks and independent opinions on the outward guarantee signed by independent directors; 3) The resolutions of the board of supervisors and a written verification of the annual report of 2007 put forward by the board of supervisors in the form of its resolutions; 4) An auditing report (original document) and the special remarks (original document) on the capital occupation by the controlling shareholders and other related parties of the companies issued by the certified public accountants; 5) The e-document for disclosure of the annual report of 2007 (for compilation and submission requirements of e-document, please refer to the business memo of the "Disclosure of Annual Report of 2007" in the Section of Listed Companies on the SSE website); 6) The application form for disclosure of the annual report of 2007 (downloadable from the SSE's website), ready-to-disclose announcements and the application form for disclosure of announcements (one copy for each); 7) Other documents required by the SSE. Listed companies should prepare for enough texts and disks of annual reports and abstracts for typesetting and proofreading by their designated newspapers. Listed companies should submit the above documents before 15:30 on the trading day prior to the disclosure, and can't contact designated newspapers for publishing the annual reports and abstracts until the SSE completed relevant registration procedures; 14. In the process of implementing the new accounting standards, if relevant projects and their amounts of the previously disclosed balance sheets at the beginning of 2007 have been changed or adjusted according to the regulations newly published by the Ministry of Finance and the CSRC, listed companies should submit them as single proposals together with the annual reports to the directorates for discussion, and make remarks on the changed or adjusted projects and their amounts in the announcements on directorate resolutions. If listed companies have made the change of accounting policies and accounting estimations or the adjustments to significant accounting errors but not for implementing the new accounting standards, they should make remarks in their annual reports according to the requirements of the "Rule on 2007 Annual Reports". In addition, when submitting the annual reports, they also should submit to the SSE the written opinions of the directorate, the board of supervisors and independent directors as well as relevant remarks by accounting firms concerning the above change and modification. The remarks should include the reasons for the above change and modification, the detailed accounting treatment, the affected amount on previous years' financial conditions and operational results concerning retroactive adjustments, and whether necessary communication has been conducted with former accounting firms concerning the change of accounting firms. If listed companies have made the retroactive adjustments to the financial data in the previous years in the annual reports for modifying significant accounting errors, they should, according to relevant regulations of the CSRC, disclose the modification to significant accounting errors in the form of temporary announcements before or on the disclosure date of the annual reports; 15. If accounting firms issue non-standard audit reports (audit reports with stressed issues and unqualified opinions as well as audit reports with non-unqualified opinions) to listed companies' financial accounting reports of 2007, listed companies should submit relevant documents to the SSE according to the regulations of Chapter VI of the "Listing Rules". If accounting firms issue the audit reports with disclaimer of opinion or adverse opinion to companies' financial reports of 2007, listed companies should disclose risk alerts every half-month from the disclosure day of the annual reports of 2007 to the settlement day of the involved issues or the disclosure day of the semi-annual reports of 2008. The risk alerts should contain the companies' latest operation performance and the progress of the involved issues; 16. Listed companies, if having issued convertible bonds, should disclose additional contents in the annual reports according to the requirements of Chapter VI of the "Listing Rules". Commercial banks, insurance companies, securities companies and companies engaged in real estate development should execute the special information disclosure regulations formulated by the CSRC on special industry or business; 17. Listed companies should require certified public accountants to verify the trueness, accuracy and completeness of the companies' extraordinary profit and loss of 2007 and include related contents of extraordinary profit and loss in the accounting statements' annotations appended in the audit reports in accordance with regulations in the "Q&A No.1 on Information Disclosure Regulations for Companies Offering their Securities to the Public - Extraordinary Profit and Loss" (Amendment in 2007); 18. Listed companies are encouraged to publish their annual reports on their own websites, yet the time can not be earlier than the disclosure time on the SSE's website; 19. Listed companies who have issued domestically listed shares to foreign investors should also publish contents of their annual reports overseas at the same time, and timely submit the published foreign newspapers to the SSE for record; 20. The SSE will implement after-action check toward the annual reports of the listed companies. After receiving the examination opinions of the SSE, the companies are supposed to provide written explanations and descriptions on the issues involved. Besides, they should also publish relevant supplementary and modification announcements in the designated newspapers and websites, and disclose the modified full texts of the annual reports on the SSE's website. Shanghai Stock Exchange January 2, 2008

SSE Holds Summary Meeting on Legal System Series Subject and also "SSE Joint Research Plan"
02 Jan 2008
On December 28, 2007, the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) held the summary meeting on the legal system series subject of "SSE Symposium on Legal System Work under New Situation" also "SSE Joint Research Plan", appraising the legal system subject fruits of the latest "SSE Joint Legal System Symposium on Research Plan" and seeking opinions on the SSE legal system work under new situation. Attending the meeting were all subject leaders, experts and scholars from the Legislative Affairs Office of the State Council (SCLAO), the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the Shanghai People's High Court, Shanghai No. 1 Intermediate People's Court, some other high schools and law firms. The completed "SSE Joint Research Plan" legal system series subject is divided into five parts, namely, "Study on Actual Effect of Administrative Securities Law Enforcement", "Study on Listing and Reorganization of China's Securities Companies", "Judicial Intervention in Exchanges' Self-regulation", "Study on Legal System of Non-listing Public Companies" and "Study on Securities Dispute Settlement System of USA". The above specific front-subjects are all hot and difficult problems in the securities market development and legal system construction. The subject leaders introduced the main contents of the subject reports and their research, and then the experts at the meeting made comments on the research results. Experts all held that the subject research results are of great theoretical value and practical significance and positive to the improvement of China's securities legislation, judicature and enforcement system. Experts actively made proposals on the legal system construction on the securities market and exchanges' legal system work under new situation and carried out in-depth discussion on hot issues, such as the dispute settlement mechanism on securities market, judicial intervention in exchanges' self-regulation and paperless securities trading. Concerning the dispute settlement mechanism, some experts proposed two suggestions on various increasing securities disputes. One is sticking to the "diversification" principle: the diversified dispute settlement mechanism should be established to play the advantageous role of industrial intermediation and arbitration mechanism; the other is sticking to the orientation of "professionalization": efforts should be made to continue to popularize the special collegiate bench of the financial and securities cases as well as actively explore the feasibility of establishing the financial and securities court in finance-developed areas to hear financial and securities dispute cases. Concerning the judicial intervention in exchanges' self-regulation, according to experts from the courts, since the New Securities law of the People's Republic of China was issued and implemented, the mechanism and procedures of the exchanges' self-regulation, esp., right relief channels like double check, have been increasingly improved. Self-regulation behavior is also under effective administrative supervision. When handling litigation cases triggered by exchanges' self-regulation and frontline supervision, the courts should refer to the basic experience of such mature markets as US, set up the appropriate judicial concept of limited intervention and keep necessary cautiousness and rationality. On the one hand, as to the litigations filed by the parties who have no direct interest with exchanges' self-regulation, the court shall not accept the application according to the judicial interpretation by the highest court; on the other hand, the court shall, in case hearing, stick to the principle of "legitimate examination supported by reasonable examination" and respect exchanges' self-regulation jurisdiction and professional management capability. Concerning paperless securities trading, some scholars proposed that it is necessary to conduct civil and business law study on the issues related to issuance, trading, depository, deposit, settlement and delivery in the practice in order to rationalize the legal relationship. Some experts suggested studying and formulating the "Electronic Securities Trading Law", to further clarify rights and obligations among investors, issuers, security dealers, exchanges and depository & clearing institutions in securities trading. In addition, experts also discussed about domestic listing of overseas enterprises, demutualization of exchanges and improvement of exchanges' business rules system. According to Xu Ming, SSE Assistant to President, in the meeting summary, with continuous development and expansion, the legal issues in securities market will increase and need to be researched and responded. The SSE introduced the legal system series of "SSE Joint Research Plan", aiming to establish a platform for experts, scholars, the market and the society to study the practical, great and urgent problems, to transfer the research results into practice, provide reference for the formulation and implementation of law and policy and serve the securities legislation, judicature and administrative supervision. Xu introduced the SSE work on the construction of legal system in the summary meeting. According to Xu, the SSE has always attached great importance to legal construction in recent years. The SSE stuck to the lawful governance and supervision and conducted the following work in four aspects: the first is to actively participate in the legal system construction, esp., the "Two Laws" and improve the securities law system; the second is to continuously improve the exchange's business rules and perfect its fundamental system; the third is to fulfill the self-regulation and supervision functions and perfect the self-regulation organization structure and implementation mechanism; the fourth is to conduct legal system research and publicity to create the legal system environment contributing to securities market.

