SZSE Revised the Measures on Filing of Independent Directors to Further Consolidate the Foundation for the Duty Performance System of Independent Directors
date: 2017-5-16
In order to further give full play to the positive role of independent directors in corporate governance and perfect the filing of qualification of independent directors, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (‘SZSE’) recently revised the Measures of Shenzhen Stock Exchange on Filing of Independent Directors (‘Filing Measures’). During the process of the revision, SZSE solicited opinions from listed companies and included related opinions into the revised version. According to related officer of SZSE, the revised version mainly features by the following three aspects: firstly, it more strictly enforces related requirements for the qualification of independent directors. On one hand, it refines and implements related regulations issued by national ministries and commissions, one the other hand, it strengthens continuous supervision, for example, as for the circumstance that independent directors do not conform to the appropriate qualification after taking their positions, it clearly requires them to resign within one month and listed companies to complete the by-election within two months. Secondly, it adds attention to and requirements for disclosure of past performance of independent director candidates, for example, as for circumstances that an independent director candidate, during his/her past office term, didn’t attend board meetings by person, or didn’t issue independent director opinions according to relevant regulations, or issue independent opinions that were proved to be in clear contradiction to the fact, or was dismissed from his/her post by listed company before his/her past office term, it requires related nominator to disclose detailed information of the candidate, reason for nominating the candidate, impact on the standard operation and corporate governance of listed companies and countermeasures. Thirdly, under the background of refining requirements for qualification of independent director candidates and paying more attention to their past performance, it appropriately loosens the requirement for the time of gaining relevant qualification by independent director candidates, and expands the scope of independent director candidates with the major of accounting. Related officer of SZSE emphasized that independent director system is an important part of corporate governance. The revised version further refines relevant requirements for the qualification and independence of independent directors, pays special attention to their past performance, makes sure the qualified person serve at the independent director position, and further consolidates the due diligence system foundation for independent directors. SZSE will continue to do well the work related to the filing of independent directors, and lead them to play more active roles in improving the standard operation and healthy development of listed companies.  

SZSE Builds Cross-border Financial Service System, Powering the “Belt and Road” Construction
date: 2017-5-16
At the end of April 2017, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) has respectively worked with Bank of China Phnom Penh Branch and Haitong International (India) to held roadshow events on China’s capital and overseas local characteristic enterprises respectively in Cambodia and India, extending the capital service platform to countries sitting along the route of the “Belt and Road” Initiative. In recent years, SZSE has been an important basic platform enabling the capital market to support real economy and serve national strategies. By closely centering on enterprises’ needs of cross-border development, investment and financing, SZSE has extended its characteristic service chains and played its advantages in profession, service and technologies to build a cross-border capital service system and energetically participate in construction of the “Belt and Road” Initiative.   First, SZSE plays its function of capital platform to explore innovation in cross-border financial products. Through supporting listed companies in developing key projects on the “Belt and Road” Initiative via capital market, SZSE has achieved the cross-border industrial integration of enterprises’ industrial chains. By the end of 2016, among the 1,870 companies listed on SZSE, 284 units have participated in the “Belt and Road” construction through various forms and approaches, delivering over 90-billion-yuan product export and around 150-billion-yuan engineering construction. For example, the smarty city project by ZTE has been implemented in more than 140 cities across over 40 countries, becoming a crucial carrier of the “Information Silk Road”. Sino Great Wall, through the “Belt and Road” project contracting, has driven the export of domestic building materials and created quality brands of Chinese construction. XCMG has invested USD150 million to build factories in India to support Indian local engineering construction. In addition, SZSE has enriched its innovation in bond varieties and launched the pilot of RMB-dominated bond issuance by overseas companies (called “Panda Bonds”), with two overseas companies having accumulatively issued four panda bonds and the issuance volume totaling five billion yuan.   Second, SZSE constructs a comprehensive cross-border capital service platform to create cross-border financial service ecology. Based on the “Technology SMEs Growth Roadmap Plan 2.0” jointly imitated with the Torch High Technology Industry Development Center and Ministry of Science and Technology of China, SZSE has constructed cross-border capital service platform in Cambodia and India and held characteristic roadshow events. Through offline matchmaking and online roadshow, SZSE has facilitated the matchmaking between cross-border investment and financing projects, helping cross-border capital formation. Moreover, SZSE has signed strategic cooperation agreements with Bank of China and China Construction Bank to create new models interlinking capital market and bank financing, achieve information sharing and provide custom financing services at different growth stages to enterprises going-out. Besides, SZSE has earnestly promoted Shenzhen market and held promotion events in the past two years to 26 state and region governments and financial institutions covering the region of the “Belt and Road” and its extension, which enlarges the international influence. Also, SZSE has developed in-depth cooperation with intermediaries and held three rounds of overseas M&A workshop, letting listed companies and institutional investors to connect with Israeli innovative enterprises and funds.   Third, SZSE intensifies its international communication, promotes its experience in Shenzhen market and develops equity cooperation. Specifically, SZSE has signed MOUs with the bourses of 12 countries and regions along the route of the “Belt and Road” and provided systematic capital market training courses to the bourses of seven countries and regions along the route. Also, SZSE has actively involved in affairs of international organizations such as World Federation of Exchanges and Asian and Oceanian Stock Exchanges Federation, released special reports to share SME financing experience, and acquired 40% equity stake in f Pakistan Stock Exchange jointly with Shanghai Stock Exchange and China Financial Futures Exchange, laying solid foundation for further expanding the capital market cooperation with countries along the route of the “Belt and Road”.   Next, SZSE will continue to move forward the bi-directional opening-up of market, cooperate with countries along the route of the “Belt and Road” in the fields of index service, product development, business connection and market construction, and explore the interconnection of products and businesses with the bourses along the route. SZSE will energetically facilitate the construction of cross-border capital service platform, share resource channels with domestic and overseas institutions, and construct cooperation network to constantly amplify the penetration and influence of the service platform. Besides, SZSE will fully make use of the Qianhai advantage to undertake the “bringing-in” overseas resources to create the comprehensive service ecology of “Belt and Road” cross-border investment and financing. Furthermore, SZSE will deepen international cooperation to earnestly participate in the financial infrastructure construction of countries along the route while strengthening the trading technology service and cooperation with overseas bourses to promote the joint construction of financial infrastructure with South Asian and Southeast Asian regions. Therefore, through all these efforts and moves, SZSE will constantly improve its international influence to drive the international of SZSE members with the international of SZSE itself and enhance the overall opening-up level of all industries.  

SZSE Amends the Appraisal Measures for Information Disclosure to Further Optimize Disclosure Appraisal System
date: 2017-5-9
Recently, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) made amendments to the Appraisal Measures for Information Disclosure of Listed Companies (hereinafter referred to as the Appraisal Measures) and optimized the announcement appraisal method in a move to better adapt to the development of capital market and the change in supervision trends, further improve the appraisal system for listed companies’ information disclosure and facilitate listed companies and interested principals to do well in information disclosure.   According to a principal from SZSE, the adjustment involves routine announcement disclosure, business handling and full flow of information disclosure negative list, further highlights the overall performance appraisal of information disclosure and improves the comprehensive appraisal mechanism that takes listed companies as the core and covers companies’ controlling shareholder, de facto controller, directors, supervisors, senior management and key personnel of information disclosure. On the one hand, SZSE optimizes the announcement appraisal method. Appraisal items are consolidated and scoring flexibility is increased to reflect the appraisal result in a more reasonably way. In addition, supervision is intensified over input mistakes of key dada in announcements and extreme events like operational risks. Also, scoring weight of important and complicated announcements on extraordinary matters is stressed to ensure fair and rational appraisal result. On the other hand, SZSE amends the appraisal content and negative list indicators in the Appraisal Measures. In view of the new situations of capital market and the supervision practices and considering the influence of different companies’ information disclosure difference on appraisal result, SZSE brings the following factors into appraisal: the ratio of disclosure supplements or changes, the degree of cooperation by shareholders and other information disclosure obligors, the protection of investors’ rights and interests, and the extent of cooperation by companies or their interested personnel in developing regulatory work, and the administrative regulatory measures taken by securities regulatory bureaus.   The SZSE principal said that in order to leave listed companies a proper transitional period, the amended appraisal mechanism will be applied from the appraisal year of 2017 onward and stressed that information disclosure systems are the cornerstone of securities market. Listed companies and interested information disclosure obligors should further enhance their awareness and strictly perform their obligation according to securities laws and regulations and the rules of exchange to deliver sound performance and improve quality in the information disclosure of listed companies.

SZSE and CCB Deepens Strategic Cooperation to Drive Matchmaking of SME Financing and Investment
date: 2017-5-9
On May 5, 2017, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and China Construction Bank Co., Ltd. (CCB) signed a strategic cooperation agreement in Shenzhen, which deepens the strategic partnership on the exiting basis. SZSE General Manager Wang Jianjun and CCB Vice-president Yu Jingbo attended the signing ceremony. Also on the same day, Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd., SZSE’s wholly-owned subsidiary, and CCB International (Holdings) Co., Ltd. signed strategic cooperation agreements.   According to the agreements, the two parties will develop domestic and overseas cooperation to serve innovative SMEs, achieve information sharing and platform matchmaking, drive product innovation and cross-border services, jointly develop SMEs cultivation, propel company listing, provide enterprises with full life-cycle financing services and actively explore cross-border financial services, thus facilitating the formation of cross-border capital.   SZSE has been making it as its mission to support the development of SMEs and innovative enterprises and endeavoring to build an efficient and transparent innovative capital formation center. Next, under the strategic cooperation framework of SZSE and CCB, Shenzhen Securities Information and CCB International will develop the matchmaking of enterprise investment and financing as well as cross-border financial services on the “Technology SMEs Growth Roadmap Plan 2.0” to guide and cultivate the roadshow project enterprises recommended by CCB International while earnestly driving the connection of cross-border investment and financing projects by way of online roadshow and offline matchmaking to build a service platform for technology SMEs.

Circular on the Failure of Ingenious Ene-carbon New Materials Co., Ltd. to Disclose Periodic Reports As Scheduled
date: 2017-5-2
On the evening of April 28, 2017, Ingenious Ene-carbon New Materials Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “the Company”) disclosed the Announcement on Failure to Disclose Periodic Reports within the Statutory Period and Trading Suspension, saying the Company could not disclose its 2016 annual report and 2017 quarter one report within the statutory period.   In line with the law-based strict comprehensive regulatory philosophy, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (hereinafter referred to as “SZSE”) has been paying great attention to the risk of the Company’s possible failure of disclosing periodic reports as scheduled and has taken a series of regulatory measures. First, SZSE has paid great attention to closely follow the Company’s asset sale at 2016 year end. Regarding the Company’s sale of partial equity stake in a subsidiary disclosed in December 2016 to obtain investment income, SZSE successively issued three letters of concern to inquire and demand the Company and its appointed intermediary to make a statement on the accounting treatment of the Company’s assets sale and whether the assets sale has constituted major assets restructuring. Second, SZSE has been urged the Company in a timely manner to appoint an annual audit firm. With regard to the matter that the Company had not appointed its 2016 financial report audit firm, SZSE issued a letter of concern to the Company on March 27, 2017, requiring the Company to state the reason, relevant plan and the current progress, tell whether its annual report preparation would be affected and the solutions, analyze whether it is possible that the Company would fail to disclose its periodic reports on time, and make risk warnings. Third, SZSE has closely followed the development of the Company’s preparation of disclosing periodic report. On April 24, 2017, the Company convened a general meeting of shareholders and approved the proposal of appointing annual audit firm and SZSE telephoned the Company and its auditor at the first time to well prepare its 2016 annual report. On April 27, the Company received from its annual audit firm an official notice saying that the audit work could not be completed on the Company’s original annual report disclosure day and it was estimated that the Company’s periodic reports would not be disclosed within the statutory period. Thereupon, SZSE immediately required the Company to disclose in time the Risk Warning on the Forecast Failure of Disclosing Periodic Reports within Statutory Period and Possible Stock Listing Suspension to fully remind the market of its possible risks.   Considering that the Company cannot disclose its 2016 annual report and 2017 quarter one report within the statutory period and according to Article 12.6 of Stock Listing Rules, SZSE has imposed trading suspension on the Company’s stock from May 2, 2017 onward. In addition, SZSE will activate the punishment procedure as soon towards the Company and its interested parties, report the clues on its action against the law to China Securities Regulatory Commission and apply for putting it on record for further inspection.   SZSE hereby reiterates that the Company and all its directors should strictly abide by the laws and regulations including Securities Law, Corporation Law and Stock Listing Rules, actually, accurately and fully perform their respective information disclosure obligation in time, and practically take measures to eliminate the influence of failure to disclose periodic reports within statutory period so as to fully protect board investors’ interests.

SZSE Energy Conservation Index Released
date: 2017-5-2
On April 28, 2017, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. (SSIC) released SZSE Energy Conservation Index (“the Index”, code: 399695) to reflect the overall performance of SZSE-listed companies engaging in energy conservation and environment protection related industries and provide investors with diversified index-oriented investment targets. The base date of the Index is June 30, 2010 and the base point 1,000.   Since the beginning of the “13th Five-year Plan”, energy conservation industry, as the top one among the seven strategic emerging industries, has been in fast growth. Meanwhile, Shenzhen securities market, committed to promoting independent innovation, serving China’s economy and supporting SMEs, has cultivated many quality S&T environmental protection enterprises. According to the energy conservation and environmental protection industry classification compiled by China Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Group (CECEP), there are 130 A-share companies falling into the category of environmental projection industry. Among them, the SZSE-listed companies account for 71% and the SME and ChiNext board companies total 62%.   Sample stocks of the Index are selected from the SZSE-listed A-shares based on companies’ percentage of energy conservation and environmental protection business and the CECEP’s research result on green finance. This is aimed to set up the benchmark for the industry and guide social capital to invest in green industries and serve green economy development.   The number of sample stocks is set at 100 and it is subject to the actual adoption when the samples are fewer than 100 stocks. Index is weight calculated by way of equal weight. The sample stocks and weight factors will be regularly adjusted in each January and July.   According to information, the accumulate yield of the Index is 228% from June 30, 2010, the base date, to March 31, 2017 while that of SZSE Composite Index in the same period is 110%. This has fully indicated the favorable booming development trend of environmental protection industry in SZSE market.   SZSE Energy Conservation Index is co-developed by Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. and three units subordinated to CECEP, namely, CECEP (Hong Kong) Investment Co., Ltd., CECEP Consulting Co., Ltd. and China Industrial Energy Conservation and Clean Production Association. CECEP is the largest S&T service industry group in China’s energy conservation and environmental protection field to which it is dedicated, and it has seven subordinated listed companies engaging in the field.  

Guideline of SZSE for Structured Fund Business Management Officially Implemented from May 1st
date: 2017-4-26
With approval from the China Securities Regulatory Commission, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) released the Guideline of Shenzhen Stock Exchange for Structured Fund Business Management (“the Guideline”) on November 25, 2016 for the sake of regulating the adequacy management over structured fund investors and protecting investors’ legitimate rights and interests. The Guideline will be officially implemented from May 1, 2017. It further improves investor adequacy management systems and regulates the work on structured fund split, investor education and risk warning on the basis of summarizing the recent years of experience in structured fund management and operation. It is an important institutional arrangement for implementing the law-based strict comprehensive supervision, paying greater attention to and preventing market risks, and propelling the stable and sound development of the fund market.   In order to secure the Guideline implementation, securities companies in the earlier stage have completed relevant tech system improvement as per the Guideline. Moreover, investors have been reminded through multiple channels including network and telephone of following the arrangement on the Guideline implementation and its influence. In addition, the interested fund management companies have released announcements to remind investors of making early appropriate arrangement according to their situations.   It is worth investors’ noticing that investors who haven’t been granted permissions after the official implementation cannot buy sub-shares of structured fund or split basic shares but still have the options of holding or selling the structure fund shares held. Pursuant to the Guideline, investors who desire to apply for structured fund-related permissions should meet certain conditions, such as “(applicants) should have a daily securities asset average of not less than 300,000 yuan in the 20 trading days prior to permission application” and “(applicants) should sign the Risk Announcement to Structured Fund Investors” in written form at the physical spot of business departments.” Therefore, investors should pay attention to the notices, announcements, text messages, WeChat push and other information released by securities companies or make phone call to them to know about the specific arrangement on permission application. Also, investors should follow the possible changes in permissions on involving in structured fund business after the Guideline implementation to reasonably arrange transactions and prevent investment risks.  

China-Cambodia Cross-border Capital Services Platform and Its First Roadshow Event Debuted in Phnom Penh
date: 2017-4-24
On 24 April 2017, the launching ceremony of China-Cambodia Cross-border Capital Services Platform and its first roadshow event were held in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. Mr. Yim Chhay Ly, Deputy Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Cambodia, Mr. Xiong Bo, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the People’s Republic of China to the Kingdom of Cambodia, Mr. Wu Lijun, Chairman of the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (hereinafter referred as SZSE), Mr. Pung Kheav Se, Chairman of the Canadia Bank PLC and Chairman of the Association of Banks in Cambodia, Mr. Sou Socheat, Director General of Securities and Exchange Commission of Cambodia, and Mr. Chen Changjiang, CEO of Bank of China Phnom Penh Branch attended the event. The event was broadcasted live in the Shenzhen sub-venue through video connection.   To facilitate the match-making of cross-border investment and financing projects and promote cross-border capital formation, the China-Cambodia Cross-border Capital Services Platform (hereinafter referred as the Platform) was jointly established by SZSE’s wholly owned subsidiary Shenzhen Securities Information Co. Ltd. and Bank of China Phnom Penh Branch. A Cross-border Financial Services Cooperation Agreement was signed between both parties. According to the agreement, both sides will make efforts to connect the Chinese capital and Cambodian projects and diversify cross-border financial service models through information display, roadshow events, interactive communication and PR training. The first road show hosted 4 Cambodian companies from traditional industries and innovative sectors, covering infrastructure construction, industrial park development, culture and tourism, and Internet new media. Around 100 Cambodian enterprises and business representatives attended the roadshow at Phnom Penh main venue, while 30 professional investment institutions conducted interactive exchanges with the main venue at Shenzhen sub-venue through video connection. Besides, a featured display section was set up on the platform’s website targeting nearly 4,000 investment institutions. Great enthusiasm from Chinese investment professionals to the Cambodian companies well embodied the enormous demand for the bilateral capital link.   China-Cambodia Cross-border Capital Services Platform is based on “Science & Technology SMEs Growth Roadmap Plan 2.0” (hereinafter as “Tech 2.0 Platform”), co-sponsored with the Torch High Technology Industry Development Centre, Ministry of Science and Technology of China and operated by Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. Through video broadcasting systems on computers and mobile phone, the “Tech 2.0 Platform” organizes face-to-face road shows and provides live webcast solutions to match innovative projects with prospective investors beyond boundaries of time and location. The “Tech 2.0 Platform” has gathered around 4000 certified professional investment institutions and over 2000 quality tech projects nationwide with road shows performed on a daily basis. With economic, efficient, and transparent investment information sharing features, the platform helps to form an investment and financing eco-system of the private innovative tech companies. Based on the “Tech 2.0 Platform”, SZSE is working with domestic and overseas financial institutions to connect cross-border innovative resources via online road shows and face-to-face meetings.   On 29 March, 2017, SZSE and Bank of China signed a strategic cooperation agreement to jointly promote cross-border capital service under the Belt and Road Initiative. Looking ahead, the China-Cambodia Cross-border Capital Services Platform, giving full play to its non-profit and openness characteristic, will attract more Chinese and Cambodian institutions to jointly promote information sharing and build up cooperation network. Efforts will be made to expand penetration and influence of the Platform and promote capital connection on a broader aspect. The Platform, drawing on the SZSE’s experience on market building, will improve compliance and standardization of the operation mechanism, enhance technical capability and strengthen risk prevention to build a credible and authoritative cross-border capital service platform. The Platform and the existing Cambodian capital market system, complementing each other, will reach mutual and collaborative development.

SZSE and Norinco Group Hold Special Training Events
date: 2017-4-24
Recently, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) joined hands with China North Industries Group Corporation (hereinafter referred to as “Norinco Group”) and held two rounds of special training on capital operation and “Going inside SZSE” events. A total of more than 70 trainees from the Reform and Asset Management Department, HR Department and over 40 subordinate units of Norinco Group participated in the training events.   Special training events are a part of the serial activities of SZSE serving centrally-administered SOEs’ capital operation and a key component of the training system of Norinco Group’s HR Department and Talent Institute’s carder training. Norinco Group combines capital market business training and talent team building together and separately organizes training events for the two levels of trainees of senior management and outside directors. The training has courses including “Capital Market Helps SOE Reform” and “Fixed-income Financing” and arranges interactive experiencing activities such as enterprise investigation and listing ceremony viewing. The training events are conducive for the trainees to know about the latest policy development of capital market and expand their vision, thus laying foundation for Norinco Group’s reform in greater depth.   According to an SZSE principal, the special training on SZSE serving centrally-administered SOEs’ capital operation has been held for three rounds, delivering favorable effects. SZSE will constantly summarize experience and strengthen its communication and cooperation with centrally-administered SOEs to reinforce the function of capital market serving SOE reform, support supply-side structure reform and serve the transformation and upgrade of real economy. Next, SZSE will take customized training as a start point to keep improving its event plans and gradually provide the comprehensive services that include enterprise cultivation, talent exchange and research cooperation.

SZSE Develops Cross-border Capital Platform Connection Events in India
date: 2017-4-24
On April 20, 2017, Mr. Wu Lijun, Chairman of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), and his team arrived in Bombay India to develop online roadshow events for investment projects together with Haitong International (India), a company subordinate to the SZSE member unit Haitong Securities. This is to promote the cross-border connection of innovative capital between China and India and launch cross-border capital services for the “Belt and Road” Initiative.   The five Indian local projects involved in the roadshow cover various Indian characteristic industries including clean energy, internet finance, energy minerals, comprehensive commerce and clothing industry. The roadshow makes use of video live technologies to centrally connect with the 30 professional investment institutions in Shenzhen parallel session and provide special display to about 4,000 Chinese investment institutions, earning enthusiastic response in China’s investment field.   SZSE and the Torch High Technology Industry Development Center of the Ministry of Science and Technology have initiated the “Technology SMEs Growth Roadmap Plan 2.0” (hereinafter referred to as the “Technology Platform 2.0”) to share information, interconnect flows and complement functions among governmental departments, hi-tech parks, capital market, venture capital institutions and specialized third-party service intermediaries so as to provide technology SMEs with all-round full life-cycle financing and comprehensive services. Operated by Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of SZSE, the Technology Platform 2.0 utilizes internet platforms, mobile clients and professional video live systems to provide “on-the-spot plus online” roadshow solutions and enable personalized and customized smart match and precision push between the financing demands of technology enterprises and the preference of investment institutions. Likewise, it builds an economic, efficient and transparent connection platform of investment and financing information to provide platform service of public interest by centering on venture innovation. At present, the Technology Platform 2.0 has gathered about 4,000 certified investment institutions and more than 2,000 technology enterprise projects, achieving the roadshow frequency of one roadshow per day and forming the investment and financing ecology of innovative enterprises not listed yet.   Currently, SZSE is developing cooperation with domestic and overseas financial institutions and building a cross-border capital service platform based on the Technology Platform 2.0. Through online roadshow and offline connection, SZSE is to move forward the connection of cross-border investment and financing projects, facilitate the formation of cross-border capital and serve the construction of the “Belt and Road” from a deeper level and broader range. The roadshow connection held in India will be SZSE’s first trial of landing the cross-border capital service platform in India and also a beneficial cooperation with member unit Haitong Securities. By way of information sharing and platform connection, SZSE will make domestic venture innovation resources and the local channels of Haitong International (India) connect, thus achieving efficient connection between Chinese and Indian innovative capital.   Next, the SZSE delegation will have extensive contact with the local government bodies, financial institutions and enterprises of India to discuss the development of China-India cross-border capital connection projects on a higher height and greater scope.

SZSE Holds 2017 Members’ Assembly
date: 2017-4-21
On April 15, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) held the 2017 general assembly of members in order to further improve its corporate governance structure, strengthen its front-line regulatory responsibility and advance the measures of “administering the market by law” and “managing the exchange by law”. At the assembly, Liu Shiyu, chairman of China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), gave a keynote speech, CSRC vice chairman Jiang Yang gave a summary speech and Shenzhen vice mayor Ai Xuefeng also delivered an address. The assembly was presided over by SZSE chairman Wu Lijun and attended by representatives from 114 members, 2 special members, relevant departments of the CSRC, regional offices of the CSRC, institutions under the administration of the CSRC, relevant departments of Shenzhen Municipal Government, and market institutions and news media.   The assembly considered and passed the work reports of the board of directors, the president and the board of supervisors, revised the Constitution of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (Draft Amendment) and elected the new SZSE board of directors and board of supervisors. Members and fund management companies that had made outstanding contributions to the construction of the SZSE new generation trading system and the Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect were also awarded at the meeting.   During the general assembly, the first meetings of the new (fourth) board of directors and the new (second) board of supervisors were also held, at which new chairmen were chosen respectively and members of special committees under the board of supervisors were discussed.   The assembly highly appreciated the important role played by the board of directors, the management and the board of supervisors in advancing the construction of SZSE market. In recent years, SZSE has firmly implemented the policies of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council and conscientiously carried out the decisions and arrangements made by the CSRC. Aiming at serving the national strategy and the real economy, it has persevered in market-oriented, legal and internationalized reforms, committed itself to its mission and responsibility, earnestly performed its duties, kept overall development in mind, made reforms and innovations with keen determination, stimulated market dynamics and endogenous impetus, and created a multi-tiered capital market system with full fundamental functions, distinctive segment features, standardized and transparent supervision, safe and reliable operation and comprehensive and efficient services, thus playing an active role in the reform, stabilization and development of the capital market.   The assembly pointed out that in the new historic era, SZSE will resolutely carry out the decisions and arrangements of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council and, under the leadership of the CSRC and in collaboration with its members, maintain the general tone of making progress while ensuring stability, solidly advance priority work, firmly maintain market stability, promote all members’ active participation in market construction, serve the national overall strategy, and fully support the development of real economy. SZSE will stick to market-oriented, legal and internationalized reforms, further enhance its abilities of supervision, development, service, technology and management, continuously invigorate market dynamics, improve its core competency and international influence, create an innovation capital formation center and turn itself into a world first-class stock exchange.     Appendix: Members of the New Board of Directors and Board of Supervisors   1.      Members of the Fourth Board of Directors (13 Persons) Chairman: Wu Lijun Vice Chairman: Zhang Ying Non-member directors: Wang Jianjun, Li Jizun and Jiao Jinhong Member directors (in the order of Chinese phonetic alphabet of members’ names): Wang Lianzhi, Essence Securities Co., Ltd.; Yao Wenping, Tebon Securities Co., Ltd.; Ran Yun, Sinolink Securities Co., Ltd.; Qu Qiuping, Haitong Securities Co., Ltd.; Lan Rong, Industrial Securities Co., Ltd.; Chen Gongyan, China Galaxy Securities Co., Ltd.; Wang Yan, China Merchants Securities Co., Ltd.; Qi Liang, China Securities Co., Ltd.   2.      Members of the Second Board of Supervisors (7 Persons) Chairman: Yang Zhihua Non-member supervisor: Jia Wenqin Member supervisors (in the order of Chinese phonetic alphabet of members’ names): Sun Shuming, GF Securities Co., Ltd.; Wang Song, Guotai Junan Securities Co., Ltd.; Zhang Youjun, CITIC Securities Co., Ltd. Staff supervisors: Bao Shuangzu and Ding Zhihui    

Speech by CSRC Chairman Liu Shiyu at 2017 SZSE Assembly of Members
date: 2017-4-21
Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Good morning,   I am very pleased to attend the assembly of members of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE). It has been 20 years since the SZSE held the last assembly. So this meeting is a significant event and has far-reaching influence. On behalf of China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), I extend our warm congratulations on the meeting and would like to take this opportunity to share some of my views.   1.      Being fully aware of the national attribute of stock exchanges   Globally, stock exchanges in every country are carriers of national and citizen interest. As the core platform of the capital market, stock exchanges play an important and irreplaceable role which is directly related to the steady operation of a country’s financial market, the wealth of a country’s residents, economic development and social credibility, confidence and trust, as well as the safe operation of a country’s economic system.   The CPC Central Committee and the State Council have always attached great importance to the construction and development of stock exchanges. Both Shanghai Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Stock Exchange are China’s two statutory special institutions on which more than 100 million investors participate in trading currently. Consequently, they are directly related to the wealth and interest of more than 100 million families, involving several hundred million people. To run stock exchanges properly and protect investors according to law, especially the legitimate rights and interest of small and medium investors, is the inevitable requirement and concrete embodiment of carrying out the CPC’s development thoughts that center on the people.   According to Articles 102 and 105 of the Securities Law, stock exchanges adopt a membership system. All of you who gather here today as member representatives are investment bankers and experts in various professional areas, and also leaders of financial institutions. We must all have passion for our country and assume the responsibility of our time. This is the real politics, and the real overall situation. Today, no finance can be independent of politics, and no politics can ignore finance. Stock exchanges and securities institutions should enhance their political stance, solidly establish the “Four Consciousness”, and become a vanguard force in resolutely implementing the decisions of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council, an essential force in practicing the new development ideas, and a trustworthy force for various market participants and investors.   Presently, China’s capital market maintains steady operation. This situation is hard-earned and should be cherished. This year, the 19th CPC National Congress will be held, which is the top priority in the political life of our party and our country. There will be many major events and sensitive moments this year. The task to reform and develop the capital market is exceptionally arduous, while we are faced with complex international economic and financial situations. All of us must pull together to maintain the steady operation of the capital market.   2.      Stock exchanges are important regulatory bodies of the capital market   The functional positioning of the stock exchange evolves along with the development of the market economy. Currently, the stock exchange is far from its original positioning as a simple venue for securities issuance and trading. Since I took office in the CSRC, I have spent much time studying relevant laws and regulations such as the Securities Law, including carefully going through relevant articles of the Securities Law in relation to stock exchanges. I’ve finally come to realize that the stock exchange is not only a statutory venue for trading securities but also a statutory regulatory body. The entire Section II of Chapter III of the Securities Law provides for the supervision of securities listing and delisting, and grants the final decision right to the stock exchange. The title of Chapter V of the Securities Law is precisely “Stock Exchange”, and this chapter includes 20 articles and clearly sets forth its organization and supervisory function. For example, Articles 114 and 115 regulate the real-time monitoring right regarding securities transaction, restriction right regarding abnormal transaction, supervision right regarding information disclosure by listed company, and decision-making right regarding temporary market closure or trading suspension. There is actually massive amount of connotation in this. Here, we can find all the bases for the stock exchange’s main duties of front-line supervision. Article 121 specifies the disciplinary sanction right, i.e., the stock exchange has sufficient legal authority to take regulatory measures such as revoking the qualification of personnel who conduct transactions on the stock exchange in serious violation of the trading rules, and banning them from the stock market. Article 118 of the Securities Law stipulates that the stock exchange shall, in accordance with the securities law and administrative regulations, develop listing rules, trading rules, member management rules and other relevant rules and submit them to the securities supervision and administration authority under the State Council for approval. My understanding is that this article in fact grants the stock exchange the power to conduct all-round supervision of the market by formulating rules.   In my opinion, the authority granted by law to the stock exchange is not only in line with the institutional arrangement commonly adopted in the development and supervision of the international capital market, but more importantly, it demonstrates the confidence and great trust put in the stock exchange by our party and country regarding the front-line supervision. The stock exchange has both the legal duty to conduct real-time, panoramic market monitoring and the natural advantage of being close to various market participants, so it reflects the inherent logic of market operation and regulation for the stock exchange to assume the front-line supervision responsibility. Different from administrative supervision and general self-regulation, the supervision function granted to the stock exchange by law is extensive, diverse and effective, and can better achieve the goal and direction of market operation. The stock exchange must take the initiative to exercise the comprehensive supervision function according to the law, including substantive supervision regarding company listing, delisting, and M&A and restructuring. This is not that the exchange abuses its function; rather, it is performing its due function according to the law. Another example is the supervision of intermediaries. Whether it is a listed company, member of the exchange, or any other intermediaries that engage in securities business, such as an accounting firm, the exchange must have relevant rules to regulate them. Anyhow, all the players in the market must be subject to the supervision of the exchange without exception.   Front-line supervision is the statutory duty granted to the exchange by the Securities Law, and supervision is the statutory principal work of the exchange. The exchange has both the authoritative nature of a statutory organization and the flexibility of self-disciplinary regulation. The exchange should act bravely and assert its right to   protect the authoritativeness of statutory supervision, and through utilization of the flexibility of its own rules, crack down without mercy on behaviors that disrupt market order. Listed companies are listed on the exchange, investors trade on the exchange, members are affiliated with the exchange, and information is disclosed through the exchange. Therefore, the exchange is duty-bound to maintain market order, and members of the exchange are duty-bound to maintain market stability. The exchange market is a “pot we all eat from”, and if the pot is broken, none of us can be well fed. All the members of the exchange should actively respond to and implement the requirements of front-line supervision, and jointly maintain market order.   3.      The exchange and its members must serve the national overall development strategy   The capital market must be designed and planned in a way that it facilitates the implementation of the new development concepts and the structural reform of the supply side. The exchange must play well the role of a hub, gathering the strengths of its members and the market, take the initiative to align with the national strategy, support enterprise reform, development and scientific and technological innovation, and increase the proportion of direct financing. Furthermore, it should always adhere to market-oriented, legal and internationalized reform direction, steadily promote two-way opening-up, and deepen ties with global major exchanges in multiple forms such as connection of trading facilities, cross-listing of products, technical cooperation, shareholding and joint venture so as to develop its global presence in a gradual way.   As members of the exchange, investment banks should come back to their basics by focusing on their primary business, and be honest and be angels. Certified public accountants and accounting firms engaged in the securities business should act as the “gatekeeper” to keep inferior companies from entering the capital market. Exchanges, investment banks and accounting firms should make joint efforts to support the M&A and restructuring and resource integration of listed companies to help them become better and stronger. We need to shorten the service chain and reduce financing cost. We need to enable the majority of investors and various enterprises to benefit from the dividend of the capital market.   At this assembly, the new board of directors and the new board of supervisors will be elected. The new leadership team should have new concepts and make new achievement. The CSRC will strongly support the exchange in reform and development and in performing the front-line supervisory duty according to the law, maintaining steady market operation, serving the development of real economy, and protecting the legitimate rights and interest of investors so as to create a bright future of the capital market and greet the 19th CPC National Congress with outstanding work.   Finally, wish the assembly a great success.   Thank you.

The SZSE Revised Interest-bearing Method for Repo Transaction
date: 2017-4-21
The volatility of pledge-style repo rates has increasingly become a market concern as turnover of repo transactions (repo) increases along with the constant expansion of the exchange bond market in recent years. In order to further enhance the interest-bearing mechanism for repo, smooth out volatility of repo rates and solve the “holiday effect” problem, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) has recently amended the SZSE Detailed Rules for the Implementation of Bond Trading by changing the number of the interest-bearing days for the repurchase price from nominal days to the actual days of funds outstanding. The repurchase price for repos entered into before that date will still be calculated according to the former formula.   After the change, the quoted repo rate of various products will represent the average annualized rate of funds outstanding based on actual days. Meanwhile, the holiday factor will have no effect on the repo rate (for example, assuming that the prevailing market rate is 3 percent, the rate quoted by the market participant is 3 percent, and the number of actual days of funds outstanding for Thursday overnight repo is 3 days, then the repo interest is 3%×3/365.) When quoting rates, market participants will no longer need to consider the effect of the actual days of funds outstanding on the repo rate. They will need to adjust their existing rate quoting habit and quote actual annualized rates to reflect the actual rate level of the market. In response to this change, the SZSE requires the brokerage counter system to issue an alert to investors when investors quote rates and also requires the brokerage counter system and the quotation system to disclose the actual days of funds outstanding for all the repo products with repo terms of no more than 14 days.   According to an official from the SZSE, in order to further disclose changes of repurchase prices and help market participants correctly interpret the exchange repo rate, the SZSE has recently published the end-of-day weighted average repo rate, and will further publish real-time weighted average repo rate through the quotation system after the completion of technical renovation.   Assuming that 3 overnight repos are entered into at an annualized rate of 9 percent, 1 percent and 2 percent during a trading day with trading value of RMB 100 million, RMB 200 million and RMB 700 million, respectively, then the end-of-day trading value weighted average rate will be 2.5 percent [9%×1/(1+2+7)+1%×2/(1+2+7)+2%×7/(1+2+7)=2.5%]. Similarly, real-time weighted average rate will reflect the weighted average rate of all repos executed from market opening to a specified point in time during a given trading day. Market participants can check the end-of-day weighted average repo rate through the SZSE’s official website (http://www.szse.cn/main/ints/sjtj/zqzyshgjy/, or http://www.szse.cn/main/ints/深交所固定收益信息平台-数据统计).  

“Technology SMEs Growth Roadmap Plan 2.0”“Suishi Xinghuo” VC Alliance Launches With the First Accession of 20 Known VC Institutions
date: 2017-4-14
With the support of Torch High Technology Industry Development Center of the Ministry of Science and Technology (hereinafter referred to as the “Torch Center”) and Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), “Suishi Xinghuo” Venture Capital Alliance (hereinafter referred to as the “Alliance”) was officially launched at SZSE on April 12, 2017. The Alliance is founded with dependence on the “Technology SMEs Growth Roadmap Plan 2.0” (hereinafter referred to as the “Roadmap Plan 2.0”) and has the first accession of 20 well-known venture capital instructions on its launch. Director of the Torch Center Zhang Zhihong, General Manager of SZSE Wang Jianjun, and senior executives of the 20 VC institutions attended the launch ceremony.   According to the sponsor, the Alliance was jointly set up by the initiator “Roadmap Plan 2.0” and a batch of know VC institutions. It is designed to enhance the resource sharing and information exchange among VC institutions, strengthen VC institutions’ business connection with external resources, and build a VC ecology featuring resource sharing and win-win cooperation, thus further serving the national innovation drive strategy.   It is said that the “Roadmap Plan 2.0” was initiated by the Torch Center, SZSE and other institutions and was officially launched on October 30, 2014. Relying on the technology financial information service platform and the basic database of technology enterprises, the plan is developed to achieve information sharing, process interconnection and function complementation among governmental departments, hi-tech parks, capital market, VC institutions and specialized third-party service intermediaries so as to provide technology SMEs with all-round full life-cycle financing and comprehensive services. After two-year operation, the technology financial information service platform has covered 25 provinces and autonomous regions, 15 national independent innovation demonstration zones, 66 national hi-tech zones, 22 equity trading centers and gathered 2,500 technology innovation and entrepreneurship enterprise and more than 8,000 profession investors from over 3,000 investing institutions including VC/PE and listed companies. Accordingly, it has primarily constructed a platform of connecting investment and financing information that combines open, online and offline services of public interest.   In his speech, SZSE General Manager Wang Jianjun expressed that venture capital is an importance force driving innovation and entrepreneurship development and has delivered many quality innovative enterprises to SZSE. For years, VC institutions and SZSE have supported each other and grown together. After its establishment, the Alliance will further deepen the partnership between SZSE and VC institutions, thus elevating the capacity of the multi-tiered capital market to serve innovative enterprises. In addition, by centering on serving innovation and entrepreneurship, SZSE will further improve the multi-tiered capital market system and increasingly extend its service chain so that the innovative capital created by VC ecology and SZSE will become a center and the innovation and entrepreneurship capital ecosystem will integrate, therefore contributing to China’s innovation and entrepreneurship development.   At the launch ceremony, Director of the Torch Center Zhang Zhihong said that as a unit directly under the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Torch Center mainly takes charge of hi-tech industrialization and innovation & entrepreneurship environment construction. Through near three-decade development since inception, the Torch Center has formed a complete system encompassing 156+1 national hi-tech zones, more than 3,600 technology enterprise incubators, over 4,300 maker spaces for serving technology SMEs. After its establishment, the Alliance will be conducive to help the “Roadmap Plan 2.0” in operation better target at VC institutions’ common issues such as insufficient project source, unsmooth exit channel and deficient after-investment management and provide material value-added services for the business chain of “raising, investing, managing and withdrawing” venture capital, thus enhancing the level of serving hi-tech enterprises.   Representatives of the first-batch institutions of the Alliance including Jin Haitao, Managing Partner of Qianhai Fund of Funds, Deng Feng, Founder of Northern Light Venture Capital, and Kuang Ziping, Managing Founding Partner of Qiming Venture Partners, delivered speeches in succession. All agree that establishing the Alliance is an innovative move of the capital market to support technical innovation and enterprise management and is helpful for VC institutions and innovative enterprises to better use capital market platform to gain scale development.   After the launch ceremony, the Torch Center, SZSE and VC institutions had an informal discussion on how to strengthen the connection between capital market and VC institutions as well as the next work plan of the Alliance.

SSIC, Euronext and Sina Sign MOU
date: 2017-4-12
On April 11, 2017, Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “SSIC”), Euronext and Beijing Sina Internet Information Service Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “Sina”) signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) to develop close cooperation on the application research on internet big data, the development of stock indexes and the innovation in cross-border index products based on their respective advantages. Principals of the three units signed the MOU. Deputy General Manager of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) Jin Liyang, CEO of Euronext London Lee Hodgkinson, Vice President of Sina Deng Qingxu and Economic Consul of the General Consulate of France in Guangzhou Pierre Martin attended the signing ceremony.   A subsidiary of SZSE, SSIC has previously singed a bunch of cooperation agreements with Euronext and developed broad cooperation in cross-border exhibition, joint brand promotion and personnel exchange visits, playing positive roles in enhancing the mutual understanding in each other’s capital market. In addition, SSIC and Sina have jointly launched big data research since 2014 and made achievements in big data index innovation, with the introduced serial indexes and index products being well received and acknowledged by the market.   The agreed cooperation intention among the three parties will create a new partnership model consisted of a professional index institution, an overseas bourse and an internet information enterprise. The three parties’ joint research on big data will be conducive to accelerate the development of Shenzhen capital market in big data technology application, information service innovation, cross-border product development and many other frontiers of capital market. Moreover, the development of stock indexes and cross-border products will not only help European investors to better understand China’s capital market and internet industry, but also provide overseas institutions with more diversified index instruments to invest in China.

Build Industrial Capital Integration Platform to Aid Electronic Information Industry Development
date: 2017-4-12
—      MIIT and SZSE Hold “Summit Forum on Capital Connection of China Information Technology Industry” The Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of China (MIIT) and Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) held the Summit Forum on Capital Connection in China Information Technology Industry in Shenzhen on the morning of April 10, 2017. Deputy Director of the Electronic Information department of MIIT Wu Shengwu and Deputy General Manager of SZSE Jin Liyang attended and addressed the forum.   In his speech, Deputy Director Wu said there are new development opportunities in China’s electronic information industry. With great attention paid to the development of information and technology industry, the CPC Central Committee and the State Council are moving forward the implementation of manufacturing power and cyber power strategies in great depth. Accordingly, the MIIT Electronic Information department has launched a series of policies to support making breakthroughs in core key technologies and enhance industrial quality and efficiency. In 2016, the enterprises above designated scale in the electronic information industry delivered sales revenue of 17 trillion yuan, further enhancing China’s status as an electronic information power in the world. Also, the close integration between industries and financial capital has become an irresistible trend. However, in the current development of China’s electronic information enterprises, there are still perplexing issues including the insufficiency of financing channels, exchange platform and financing experience. To address these issues, a channel that is compatible with the industry features is in urgent need for the sake of connecting with the multi-tiered capital market. To accelerate such a channel construction, efforts can be specifically made from four aspects. The first is to enhance policy synergy to improve the financial services in key fields and for key tasks. The second is to further perfect the cooperation mechanisms between financial institutions. The third is to further the development of venture capital. And the fourth is to further reinforce the collaboration between finance and the industry talent and “going-out” strategies.   Deputy General Manager Jin expressed that SZSE has been committed to constructing a multi-tiered capital market and has upheld the principle of serving real economy development and innovation & entrepreneurship to create an innovative capital center of China. At present, SZSE has formed the multi-tiered market system consisting the main board, SME board and ChiNext board and become the big platform for emerging enterprise gathering and manufacturing enterprise transformation and upgrade. As of March 31, 2017, the number of companies listed on SZSE has amounted to 1,938. Among them, 352 companies are from electronic information-related industries with their total market value of 4.1 trillion yuan, accounting for about one fifth of the total SZSE-listed companies in both company quantity and market value. This indicates that electronic information has become the largest industry segment of SZSE, showcasing pleasing growth and huge potential. While supporting the IPO, listing and expansion of enterprises, SZSE also has cooperated extensively with state ministries, local governments, intermediaries and investment institutions to increasingly extend its service chain for forming a complete venture capital ecosphere. SZSE will further deepen the cooperation with the MIIT Electronic Information department to provide more comprehensive capital market service to electronic information industry.  According to information, the forum is one of the important events of the Fifth China Information Technology Expo. Experts from relevant state ministries, financial institutions and industrial fields were invited to the forum to share their opinions on and the practices of integrated development of the industry from various perspectives, attracting more than 100 participating representatives of local economic and information commissions, venture capital institutions and industrial enterprises.

SZSE and BOC Launch Strategic Cooperation, Boosting the ‘Belt and Road’ Cross-border Financial Services
date: 2017-3-31
On 29 March 2017, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (hereinafter referred as SZSE) and Bank of China Limited(hereinafter referred as BOC) signed strategic cooperation agreement in Shenzhen, hand-in-hand boosting the ‘Belt and Road’ Cross-border financial services. Wu Lijun, Chairman of the Council of SZSE, Wang Jianjun, General Manager of SZSE and Tian Guoli, Chairman of the board of BOC and Gao Yingxin, Vice President of BOC attended the signing ceremony.   According to the agreement, both sides will cooperate at home and aboard, jointly serving the innovative small-and-medium enterprises (SME), materializing information sharing, platform connecting, products innovation and cross-border services. Firstly, the ‘Belt and Road’ cross-border financial services will be pushed forward. Via online road show and off-line connection, cross-border investment and financing projects will be matched, facilitating the shaping of the cross-border capital. Secondly, innovation of cross-border financial products will be explored to back-up the facilitation of cross-border financing of enterprises, and supporting the emerging of diversified financing tunnels. Thirdly, work of cultivation of SME will be jointly carried out, propelling the issuance and listing, providing a wholly life circle of supply train financial services to the enterprises.   SZSE have always shouldered the responsibilities of backing up SMEs, private enterprises, and innovative enterprises. Via ‘Tech SME Growth Route Plan 2.0’, SZSE launched orderly investment and financing matching services for the enterprises, striving to forge economical, high-efficient, transparent enterprise investment and financing information matching platform, and develop innovation capital center.   For the next steps, under SZSE and BOC’s strategic cooperation framework, both sides will work together to develop China-Cambodia SME Cross-border Capital Service Platform in Cambodia, carry out enterprise cross-border investment and financing matching services, and guide and train the enterprises displayed on the platform, and further serve the integration development of the real economy of two countries, and implement the state strategy of the ‘Belt and Road’. Both sides expressed their hope of promoting SME Cross-border Capital Service Platform to other countries and regions along the ‘Belt and Road’ route on the basis of successful trial in Cambodia.

The Number of Shenzhen Listed Companies Distributing Cash Dividend has Occupied over 70 Percent of the Total Number of Shenzhen Listed Companies after Multi-Measures on Guiding Cash Dividend Distribution
date: 2017-3-28
Under the guidance of the supervision department via multi-measures, the cash dividend distribution situation of Shenzhen listed companies has been improved continuously, with the proportion of cash dividend in net profit and the number of Shenzhen listed companies distributing cash dividend increasing year by year. Statistics show that Shenzhen listed companies realized accumulated cash dividend of CNY391.082 billion from 2013 to 2015, and the number of Shenzhen listed companies distributing cash dividend had occupied over 70 percent of the total number of Shenzhen listed companies.   Cash dividend is not only one of the main ways for investors of listed companies to gain return, but also an important way for cultivating investors’ long-term investment philosophy and making the capital market more attractive. After China Securities Regulatory Commission (‘CSRC’) promulgated the Guidelines No. 3 on the Supervision and Administration of Listed Companies – Distribution of Cash Dividends of Listed Companies in 2013, CSRC, Ministry of Finance and State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (‘SASAC’) jointly released relevant notice in 2015 to actively encourage listed companies to distribute cash dividend. Shenzhen Stock Exchange (‘SZSE’) has actively implemented measures made by the CSRC and the ministries and commissions under the State Council, and regulated and guided the cash dividend distribution of listed companies via the Guidelines on Standard Operation of Listed Companies, so as to enhance the awareness of listed companies on shareholder return.   SZSE always attaches importance to regulating and guiding the cash dividend distribution of listed companies, and has achieved demonstrable results. Statistics show that the cash dividend distribution situation of Shenzhen listed companies has been improved continuously from 2013 to 2015, with the total amount of cash dividend, the proportion of cash dividend in net profit and the average amount of cash dividend increasing year by year. From 2013 to 2015, the total amount of cash dividend is CNY92.738 billion, CNY111.078 billion and 153.216 billion respectively, the average proportion of cash dividend in net profit is 30.51%, 32.31% and 36.39% respectively, and the average amount of cash dividend is CNY78 million, CNY93 million and CNY 125 million respectively.   From 2013 to 2015, there were many listed companies implementing cash dividend continuously and stably. A total of 915 listed companies distributed cash dividend for consecutive three years, accounting for over 50 percent of the number of Shenzhen listed companies, the proportion of cash dividend in net profit of 236 listed companies was more than 30%, and the proportion of cash dividend in net profit of 60 listed companies was more than 50%. The proportion of cash dividend in net profit of Chiwan Wharf and Luzhou Lao Jiao has been more than 50% for consecutive ten years, and Vanke-A has distributed cash dividend every year since its listing with the accumulated cash dividend of CNY26.893 billion, accounting for 19.90% in the accumulated net profit.   Cash dividend varies in different boards and different sectors of the stock market.   Judging from different boards of the stock market, in 2015, the ratio is higher for companies listed on the SMEs board and ChiNext board to distribute cash dividend, while the total and average amount of cash dividend and its percentage in net profit are more prominent among main-board listed companies. The total amount of cash dividend distributed by main-board listed companies over the last three years exceeds that of equity financing. Meanwhile, the average cash dividend distributed by SMEs board and ChiNext board listed companies is increasing year by year, which shows that the market has fostered a group of relatively mature blue-chip companies. Though there is a large capital demand on the part of growing SMEs and start-ups, they have shown a fairly strong willingness to distribute cash dividend.   Judging from different sectors, total cash dividend distributed in the household appliance, real estate, non-bank financial, food and beverage and biomedical industries tops the list, amounting to CNY76.313 billion, accounting for 49.81% of the total cash dividend distributed in the Shenzhen stock market. Over the past three years, 74% of the cash dividend distributed in the household appliance industry and 8.4% in the Shenzhen stock market was distributed by Gree and Midea. Moreover, the portion of cash dividend in net profit is higher in non-ferrous, construction materials, food and beverage, household appliance and machinery industries. The financial sector ranks the top in terms of average cash dividend distributed, closely followed by the household appliance, food and beverage, and the real estate industries.   The annual report provides an important window for distribution of cash dividend by listed companies. As of 24 March, 405 listed companies in the Shenzhen Stock Market have disclosed plans for profit distribution, among which, 343 companies have plans to distribute cash dividend. The total cash dividend to be distributed by PingAn Bank, Shuanghui, SCPH and Wen's Foodstuff amounts to over CNY1 billion. Furthermore, cash dividend this year grows dramatically for companies such as Zhenghai Magnetic Material, Changbao Steeltube and Sanhua, with a year-on-year increase of 451%, 400%, and 200% respectively.   The person in charge of the Shenzhen Stock Exchange expressed that the Exchange shall continue to promote and regulate cash dividend distributed by listed companies on the basis of information disclosure. The Exchange shall enhance supervision and regulation on irregularities such as no cash dividend or minimum cash dividend or conducts to hype up the market via high cash or stock bonus. It shall further optimize the allocation of capital market resources via the market transmission mechanism, so as to create a win-win situation for the listed companies, investors and other parties in the market.

CUFE-CNI Green Bond Series Index Released Today
date: 2017-3-22
On March 20, Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. (SSIC), a subsidiary of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), and the International Institute of Green Finance (IIGF) of Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) introduced “CUFE-CNI Green Bond Index”, providing a new market caliber and investment instrument for the green bonds in China.  It is the first China green bond index that is simultaneously released only in China and Europe.   CUFE-CNI Green Bond series index consists nine indexes including high-level green bonds, high-level labeled green bonds and high-level non-labeled green bonds. They simultaneously reveal market information through SZSE and Luxembourg Stock Exchange (LuxSE) who have signed a memorandum of understanding in 2013 to boost the exchange and cooperation on capital market in the two counries.  The newly launched index is another achivement the two bouses made in deepening their multi-field cross-border partnership and a positive exploration in their efforts to propel the internationalization of China’s green finance. The two parterners will jointly facilitate the listing of green index fund products in Chinese and European markets.   The co-developers of the index, SSIC and IIGF of CUFE, have combined their advantages in the fields of index innovation and green bond research to create a high-level green bond caliber that features strong representativeness and high transparency. According to statistics, high-level green bond indexes have an annual yield of 5.37% since 2012, and the remianing maturity of the latest sample averages 4.78 years with a coupon rate of 4.4%.   As the first China green bond index being succefully simultaneously displayed across border, the indes will help enhance the international influence of China’s green finance, drawing international investors to get involved in China’s green fiannce system construction and drive the development of green industries.   For more information on the index, please visit www.cnindex.com.cn and the official website of LuxSE (www.bourse.lu).

SZSE Holds 2017 Investor Protection and Service Symposium
date: 2017-3-17
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) held the 2017 Investor Protection and Service Symposium on March 15. About 40 attendees were present, including the principals from CSRC Investor Protection Bureau, Shenzhen Securities Regulatory Bureau, China Securities Investor Protection Fund Corporation, China Securities Minority Investor Protection Service Center and Shenzhen Securities and Futures Dispute Resolution Center, experts and scholars, media representatives, investor education staff of intermediaries and investor representatives. At the symposium, participating representatives introduced the general situations of investor protection developed by interested units, discussed the policies and practices on investors’ law-based rights execution and protection and investor adequacy management, exchanged experience in constructing investor education bases and proposed opinions and suggestions on deepening the work on investor protection.   A principal of CSRC Investor Protection Bureau said that the Bureau has made encouraging achievements in the perfection of protection system arrangement, the innovation in investor protection approaches, the effective development of investor protection activities and the proper handling of investor appeals. In 2017, the Bureau will highlight the work on eight aspects, namely, studying and formulating investors’ appeal handling relation, promoting the establishment of a multi-tiered investor compensation system, establishing high-level authoritative mediation institutions, expanding investors’ rights execution, launching investor welfare websites, accelerating the inclusion of investor education into national education pilot projects, conducting surveys on investor conditions and effectively evaluating investors.   A SZSE principal expressed that investor education is a systematic and specialized project for it involves multiple facets including self-discipline supervision, administrative supervision and judicial remedy and that it necessitates the joint efforts from all walks of life to form a working system featuring full coverage and organic connection. With the theme of “communication and understanding, progress hand in hand — investor protection always on the road”, the symposium was designed to implement the spirit of the 2017 National Securities and Futures Supervision Work Conference and collect wisdom so that investor protection can be jointly moved forward and enhanced to better drive the stable development of capital market reforms.   The SZSE principal revealed that SZSE has been taking the protection of legitimate rights and interest of investors, especially minority investors, as the start point and foothold of its front-line supervision and has made a series of explorations as follows in recent years. First, the system foundation of investor protection has been consolidated by adapting to the new trend and new requirements of market development, enhancing information disclosure efficiency via issuing the trading suspension business memo and improving the investor adequacy management in structured funds. Second, the front-line supervision efficiency has been strengthened by positively coping with the new situations and new issues in leveraged buyout and closely monitoring abnormal trading behaviors in the spirit of implementing law-based comprehensive strict supervision. Third, work modes have been improved to promote investor education to shift in an interactive and experiential direction. For example, through the “Getting Inside Listed Companies” event, investors can acquire better understanding of the actual corporate operation via in-person viewing, inquiring and chatting. Fourth, the work vision has been broadened by fully making use of new information interactive models to facilitate the going mobile, intelligent and international of investor tasks.   A principal of Shenzhen Securities Regulatory Bureau indicated that on account of the market risk features reported and found by different types of investors, they will constantly improve investor protection from the entry points of implementing the measures on investor adequacy management and doing well the work on investor protection. Meanwhile, a principal of China Securities Investor Protection Fund Corporation introduced the front-end work conditions of the “12386” hotline and said their next priority will be optimizing the transmitting workflow to enhance handling efficiency. The principal of China Securities Minority Investor Protection Service Center presented cases to point out the problems encountered in shareholding exercise and put forward suggestions on reinforcing investor protection. In his presentation, the principal of Shenzhen Securities and Futures Dispute Resolution Center explained the features of a “four-in-one” dispute resolution system, through which the Center has played positive roles in safeguarding the legitimate interest and rights of minority investors, and proposed suggestions like a diversified dispute settlement mechanism.   An expert representative, Professor Guo Li from the Law School of Peking University shared his academic opinions from the three aspects of compound feature, connotation and scope of investors. Professor Liu Junhai from the Law School of Renmin University of China delivered his keynote speech expounding the mission, philosophy and measures of investor protection. In addition, the investor protection practitioners from securities companies including CITICS, investor representatives and a media representative from Securities Times aired their opinions and suggestions on improving investor protection systems, constructing investor protection bases and other issues.   At the symposium, the participating parties also discussed and exchanged views on other hot issues on investor protection in a warm and harmonious atmosphere. To make investor protection systems truly work, we need the support from market players, the mass of investors and the staff of securities operation organizations. Also, we should know investors’ real needs and listen to their genuine thoughts while taking the opinions and wisdom of experts, scholars and media peers. The symposium has delivered a bridge of communication, understanding and discussion to all parties and pulled heads together to make them jointly endeavor to improve the weak parts in investor protection. As a result, the construction of a fair market system will be facilitated and a sound and robust market environment will be created, which in turn will help keep the work on investor protection moving forward.

Investor Education and Protection Also Need “Shenzhen-Hong Kong Connect”
date: 2017-3-15
— SZSE & HKEX Exchange Investor Education Cooperation Copies, a Fresh Start On March 14th, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and Hong Kong Exchanges (HKEX) launched the SZSE & HKEX Investor Education Cooperation Copy Exchange Ceremony themed with “Shenzhen and Hong Kong Serve Each Other Hand in Hand” and the first Getting Inside Securities’ Business Department event. Principals from the two bourses and the CSRC as well as member units and investor representatives attended the ceremony, witnessing a fresh start in Shenzhen and Hong Kong investor education cooperation (SZHKIEC).   As the handshake model symbolizing SZHKIEC was slowly raised, the principals of SZSE and HKEX exchanged the copies on investor education cooperation and launched the first cooperation event. A SZSE principal expressed that after the launch of the Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect program, new requirements on cross-border supervision, cross-market law enforcement and SZHKIEC emerge. Because the differences between Shenzhen and Hong Kong markets are manifold, overseas investors are in sore need of understanding the new rules, new situations and new risks. In addition, the utterly different structures of investors in the Mainland and Hong Kong have presented new challenges to the investor service, education and protection in the two regions. To this end, the Investor Education Center of SZSE and the China Customer Relationship and Marketing Department of HKEX have studies and discussed for many times and formed consensuses on investor education cooperation. On such basis was arranged the copy exchange. The act is aimed to form broader regional connection in the investor education service of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect so as to make their respective advantages complementary to each other and join hands in moving forward the investor education and service in the Mainland and Hong Kong.   According to the cooperation arrangement, SZSE and HKEX will pull together in organizing characteristic investor education activities by centering on the two capital markets and establishing collaboration mechanisms including bi-directional help in exhibition and display, roadshow cooperation, information sharing and research projects, thus roundly forging the “Shenzhen-Hong Kong Connect” in investor education between the two regions. A principal of the Investor Protection Division of CSRC Investor Protection Bureau said that the continual and stable running of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect can be ensured only when investors’ rights and interests are protected under interconnection and when they get help in understanding cross-border investment risks. He also believed that the copy exchange is a key start in promoting hand in hand the investor education cooperation in the two regions and wished great achievements will be delivered in the cooperation.   In the first cooperation event held, SZSE and HKEX lecturers explained rules of Hong Kong Stock Connect and features of Hong Kong market and demonstrated how to use the simulation trading platform of Hong Kong Stock Connect. Then, a fierce “Easy IK” simulated investment competition on among investors followed. An HKEX principal said that the cooperation between SZSE and HKEX has been of long standing and that the first Getting Inside Securities’ Business Department event signifies a new beginning of the two bourses’ investor education campaign. It is hoped that such events will help investors in the two regions better understanding the rules of and differences between the two markets so that they can better seize investment opportunities and form sound risk prevention awareness.   SZSE and HKEX have kept long-term close personnel exchange and liaison mechanism and have made diverse beneficial attempts in products and businesses such as the development of index products and the reform of B-share to H-share conversion. In the future, SZSE will continue to endeavor based on domestic and overseas investors’ demands in making innovation in service approaches, enhancing investor experience, improving analysis and study tools and advocating rational investment concepts, thus constantly perfecting the service and education system for domestic and overseas investors.   After the said first event, SZSE will continue its “3-15 (i.e. March 15th) Investor Protection” series activities in 2017. These include the investor service and protection forum, the 15th “3-15 Investor Rights Protection Online Consultancy”, the 184th event of “Practicing Chinese Dream, Getting Inside Listed Companies”, the event of “Overseas Investors to Get Inside Listed Companies” and the release of 2016 Individual Investor Survey Report.

SZSE Implements the Spirit of Law-based Comprehensive Strict Supervision to Improve the System of Industrial Regulatory Rules
date: 2017-3-14
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) recently issued Guideline on the Information Disclosure of LED Industrial Chain and Medical Device Industries on ChiNext Board (hereinafter referred to as the “Guideline”) in order to implement the spirit of the 2017 National Securities and Futures Supervision Work Conference, robustly promote law-based comprehensive strict supervision and further improve the industrial information disclosure regulations system. Previously, SZSE has successively issued the guidelines on eight industries of ChiNext Board including radio film and television, bio-pharmaceutical, photovoltaic, energy conservation and environment protection, internet games and internet videos. According to the market feedback, the implementation of those guidelines has brought sound effects as the timeliness, efficiency, readability and comparability of information disclosure by interested listed companies have been greatly improved. And this helps the market research and analysis of ChiNext Board-listed companies develop with greater ease and in greater depth.   The Guideline recently issued accords with the requirements on the information disclosure of listed companies against the backdrop of national economic transformation and upgrade. ChiNext Board is positioned to serve national strategic emerging industries. There are currently more than 600 companies listed on the board where many outstanding companies in emerging industries gather. Take LED and medical device sectors as an example, there are 11 ChiNext Board-listed companies engaging in the business related to LED industrial chain and 21 companies engaging in the business related to medical device sector. All of these enterprises feature distinct industrial characteristics in their business models and profit patterns. Due to the lack of information disclosure standards that tally with industrial features, however, this type of listed companies has not made sufficient information disclosure on their business models, core competitiveness and special risks etc., which makes investors difficult to have comprehensive knowledge, analysis or comparison of the industrial situations and corporate conditions. Therefore, the system of information disclosure rules needs further supplement and improvement.   During the development of the Guideline, SZSE upheld the “open, transparent and market-oriented” principle to vigorously take the reasonable suggestions of investors. When finishing the draft, SZSE released questionnaires to a total of 2,107 small and medium investors for suggestions, invited the senior industrial analysts of domestic securities companies to involve in developing the guideline, and solicited two rounds of advices from the said 11 LED companies and 17 medical device companies. Through all these moves, SZSE collected massive feedback and opinion, some of which were adopted after thorough research and study to make the Guideline more close to the actual conditions of listed companies and fit for the needs of investors.   In consideration of the features of LED industrial chain and the industry, SZSE has refined its information disclosure requirements from the following aspects. First are industrial pattern and corporate competiveness, which are helpful to investors in reading and understanding the basics of a company and its industry. Second are the key product technology or performance indicators showcasing LED industrial features, such as the comprehensive yield of encapsulated products and the pixel pitch of display products. Third are the production and sales volume and sales pattern of main products. Fourth is whether there are material changes in the industrial policies, foreign exchange rates or trade policies in major overseas export regions. Fifth are the core clauses in LED energy conservation contracts and contracts on the exchange of advertising interests with LEDs.   As to the medical device sector, SZSE has specified the following aspects in the Guideline. First is the information on the medical devices a company own, including quantity of registration certificate, type of devices and clinic uses. Second are the production and sales conditions, production and purchase model and sales model of major medical equipment products. Third is the information on the companies’ specific business model. Fourth is the progress of product R&D and registration which should be disclosed according to the principle of importance. Fifth is announcement of explanation when there are material changes in registration certificates of major products, industrial policies and other interested aspects.   Next, SZSE will continue to steadily press ahead the industrial supervision over ChiNext Board-listed companies. It will take innovative and growth enterprises as the entry point to study industrial features and summarize supervision experience so that investors’ legitimate rights and interests will be fully protected, the efficiency and pertinence of information disclosure constantly enhanced and the release of relevant guidelines accelerated. As a result, the system construction of industrial information disclosure rules will be energetically promoted.

SZSE Rewards Member Units Making Outstanding Contribution to Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect
date: 2017-3-13
Officially launched on 5 December 2016, Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect has been commissioned for three full months as of 5 March 2017, fulfilling expected targets with overall smooth trading and stable operation. During its preparation and running, all member units have closely and actively cooperated with Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), greatly ensuring the smooth launch and stable running and making significant contributions to the successful launch. Currently, there are 96 securities companies and 46 non-member transaction participants who have opened the trading authority of Hong Kong stock connect. In order to honor the meritorious and establish models, SZSE has delivered “Outstanding Contribution Awards in Shenzhen- Hong Kong Stock Connect” to 15 members units including Essences Securities after comprehensively thinking over their strong support and active contributions in technical test participation, business plan development and market organization. The awards are to further stimulate the activeness and creativeness of member units.   A principal from SZSE said that in the past three months of SZ-HK Stock Connect’s running as of 5 March 2017, the accumulated net buying capital of Shenzhen stock connect has amounted to 39.542 billion yuan and that of Hong Kong stock connect 16.524 billion yuan while the net capital inflow of SZ-HK Stock Connect has reached 23.018 billion yuan. The work on all businesses of SZ-HK Stock Connect has been steadily carried out in order. SZSE works closely with all interested parties, having smoothly completed the transmission of daily transaction settlement data and the handling of corporate actions. In terms of Shenzhen stock connect, the underlying stocks have been adjusted twice, with the current total of 904 underlying stocks. On the part of Hong Kong stock connect, SZSE has formulated and released the trading day arrangement during the end of 2016 and in year 2017 and has adjusted the underlying stocks for eight times, with the current total of 422 underlying stocks.   The principal also underscored that the development of SZSE’s work would not be possible without the support and cooperation of member units, with the smooth launch and stable running of SZ-HK Stock Connect being an important achievement of the close collaboration and joint advancement of SZSE and all market players. The year of 2017 is a crucial year for the economic upgrade and transformation and the in-depth development of supply-side structural reform. SZSE will follow the unified deployment of the State Council and the China Securities Regulatory Commission by consolidating partnerships with member units, fully playing their market roles and constantly optimizing the interconnection mechanism. In addition, SZSE will endeavor according to the requirements set at the 2017 securities and futures supervision working conference by seeking progress in stability, keeping strict supervision in accordance with law and protecting investors’ legitimate rights and interests. SZSE will further highlight the prevention of financial risks and continue to work with member units in sparing no efforts in pressing ahead the reform and development of a multi-layer capital market and constantly enhancing the capital market capacities of serving real economy and social development.

Innovative Way of Financing and Investment to Boost the Development of Infrastructure Sector
date: 2017-3-13
—    SZSE Completes Augmentation of the First PPP Asset Securitization Project   Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) officially accepted the “Asset-backed Special Plan of GF Hengjin-Rising Dongjiang Environment Humen Lvyuan PPP Project” (hereinafter referred to as “Lvyuan PPP Special”) on March 8th and finished on March 10th the argumentation on the project which will be issued soon. Lvyuan PPP Special is the first implemented project of SZSE in carrying out the spirit of Circular of the National Development and Reform Commission and the China Securities Regulatory Commission on Boosting the Asset Securitization of Public Private Partnerships (PPP) in Traditional Infrastructure Sector (Fa Gai Tou Zi [2016] No. 2698). Also, it is an important expression of SZSE’s serving supply-side structural reform and innovating the way of financing and investment in the field of constant return.   With regard to Lvyuan PPP Special, its planned issuing scale amounts to 320 million yuan, its manager is GF Securities Asset Management (Guangdong) Co., Ltd. and its basic asset is the usufruct of sewage treatment fees of Dongguan Humen Lvyuan Water Co., Ltd. PPP projects utilize social capital to develop the key areas of people’s livelihood including infrastructure construction and public services and feature relatively stable cash flow and long asset maturity. They accord with the asset securitization requirements on the cash flow of basic assets and meet the needs of market investment and financing parties, which enable them to be the ideal industry for carrying out asset securitization. Accordingly, asset securitization is taken as a crucial means of revitalizing stock assets, speeding up the recovery of social investors’ capital and enhancing the level of PPP development.   Since the implementation of the record-keeping system, SZSE has actively served the actual needs in real economy and boosted the innovation of securitization products, having formed eights categories of assets, namely, infrastructure construction, affordable housing, public utilities, corporate accounts receivable, financial leasing, commercial real estate, admission tickets and petty loans. As a result, an asset securitization product system with Shenzhen market characteristics has primarily taken shape. Next, SZSE will keep improving the work flow of “review upon submission with responsibilities shouldered by the dedicated personnel in place” and further implement the supporting measures for PPP securitization. Moreover, on the basis of reinforcing risk prevention, SZSE will provide strong support in facilitating PPP projects with capital market access and, propelling the sound development of PPP projects in infrastructure sector.  

Focuses on Innovation and Entrepreneurship Bring ChiNext Board Companies’ Performance to a New Level
date: 2017-3-3
As of 28 February 2017, all the 603 companies of ChiNext Board have disclosed their 2016 preliminary earnings estimates or annual reports. According to statistics, the ChiNext Board companies in 2016 have adaptively followed the new normal of economic development and reliably served the supply-side structural reform. With focuses on innovation and entrepreneurship, their overall performance has ascended to a new level. Also, they have played significant roles in serving the real economy and supporting independent innovation and economic transformation and upgrade.   Last year, the ChiNext Board companies experienced constant rapid growth in operation performance, further showcasing their edge of high-growth feature. The 603 companies’ annual operating revenue and actual net profit in 2016 totaled 805.272 billion yuan and 93.216 billion yuan respectively, with the respective year-on-year growth rates of 34.46% and 38.15%. Their growth rates in operating revenue and net profit have peaked in the latest five years, with the growth rate in the former outrunning that in the later for the first time in the past five years. All these tell that the ChiNext Board companies have enhanced their revenue quality and profitability. As the group of companies featuring high rate of growth expands, the high-growth edge is more exposed. In 2016, 83.9% and 75.0% of the ChiNext Board companies experienced year-on-year growth in operating revenue and net profit respectively, both rates higher than those in 2015. In particular, 29.7% out of the said 75.0% boasted a year-on-year growth rate of over 50% in net profit.   Moreover, sticking to the road of innovative development has helped the listed companies from strategic emerging industries deliver prominent performance. In 2016, 379 companies of strategic emerging industries achieved the year-on-year growth rate of 38.7% in operating revenue. In terms of net profit, the listed companies from three industries featuring energetic innovation, namely, computer manufacturing, software and info technology service, and medicine production, boasted high year-on-year growth rates of 48.5%, 46.3% and 39.5% respectively, eclipsing the ChiNext Board average.   Lots of innovative companies have outstood and developed into industrial flagships by making use of the capital market. Last year, the 603 companies had their operating revenue average at 1.34 billion yuan and net profit at 150 million yuan. Among them, 209 companies earned over one-billion-yuan operating revenue and 250 companies obtained more than 100-million-yuan net profit, constantly expanding their scale and bringing out a batch of industrial flagships featuring sweeping influences. Six companies, including Wen’s Foodstuff, SJ Environmental Protection and Lens Technology, made over 10-billion-yuan operating revenue. With regard to net profit, Wen’s Foodstuff harvested 11.772 billion yuan, accounting for 12.6% of the board total, and the other seven companies including Originwater, SJ Environmental Protection and Lens Technology have their achievements of more than one billion yuan.   In addition, M&A and restructuring have given a leg up to some startups featuring growth potential and innovative edge in turning into listed companies. The year 2016 saw the continued active trend of M&A and restructuring on the ChiNext Board. Throughout the year, 79 companies completed major assets restructuring and their annual operating revenue and net profit grew by 64.5% and 127.9% respectively, which leave the board average far behind. M&A and restructuring not only remarkably upturn the performance of listed companies, but serve as an exemplary role for innovative entrepreneurs, forcefully driving the implementation of national innovative entrepreneurship strategies.

SME Board Companies Deliver Satisfactory Results with Rapid Growth in 2016 Performance
date: 2017-3-1
Year 2016 was the outset of the “13th Five-year Plan”. During this year, the listed companies on SME Board, as representatives of China’s outstanding SMEs, have played significant roles in serving the real economy and the supply-side structural reform, supporting independent innovation, upgrade and transformation, stimulating industrial integration and optimizing structure.   In the domestic economic environment where progress has been made in stability, SME Board companies have delivered satisfactory results through hard work and innovation. As of 28 February 2017, 834 companies have disclosed their 2016 preliminary earnings estimates or annual reports. In 2016, SME Board enterprises achieved the average operating revenue of 3.592 billion yuan, up 17.81% from that in 2015, and the average net profit of 272 million yuan, up 32.56% from that in 2015. With the strong support of national policies, they have continued to energetically promote independent innovation, upgrade and transformation as well as optimize their structures, enabling a new peak of net profit growth rate in the recent five years and showcasing their powerful economic vitality and promising development trend.   Among 16 industries, 12 industries including AFHF (agriculture, forestry, husbandry and fishery), software and info technology services, architecture and manufacturing realized year-on-year growth. Manufacturing industry, from which the SME Board companies outnumber all the other industries, delivered a year-on-year growth rate of 39% in terms of net profit, far greater than that in 2015. Also, favorable results in the supply-side reform of services were harvested.   As the cradle for cultivating industrial flagships, SME Board has assembled many excellent companies of sub-classified industries and played exemplary and guiding roles in development. In 2016, 641 and 604 companies from the board realized operating revenue growth and net profit growth respectively and their respective proportion to the SME Board members was 77% and 72%. 63% or 528 companies of the board experienced dual growth in revenue and profit. In addition, 54 companies of the board achieved the operating revenue of more than 100 billion yuan and 44 companies made the net profit of over one billion yuan, 18 and 19 units greater respectively than that of the same period in last year. More and more SME Board companies are making use of the capital market platform to expand and excel, having gradually grown into quality blue-chip enterprises. The top 30 companies, in terms of net profit, mainly come from the fields of finance, computer communications, equipment manufacturing and medicine. Their operating revenue and net profit averaged 20.181 billion yuan and 2.632 billion yuan respectively, respective year-on-year growth rates of 21% and 25%. Among the top 30, the net profit of 20 outperforms including Hikvision, BYD, SF Holding, Goertek, Robam Appliances and Zhejiang NHU grew more than 20%.   SME Board has become an important force for promoting independent innovation and industrial upgrade as more than 70% of the board members are hi-tech companies and their net profit growth rates outrun the board average. On the board, 647 units are hi-tech companies and 249 are from strategic emerging industries, with their respective year-on-year net profit growth rates being 35% and 39%. They have stuck to innovative development, valued R&D investment, and realized upgrades in technologies, products and services, featuring promising prospects.   SME Board features active M&A and restructuring and enjoys a sound general trend. While paying great attention to their main businesses, the board companies develop M&A and restructuring by centering on industrial integration to expand industrial chains, transform and upgrade. Moreover, some model enterprises get enlisted on SME Board via restructuring, playing positive influences on improving the overall performance of the board. In 2016, 78 companies completed major assets restructuring and their average year-on-year growth rates in operating revenue and net profit were 37% and 149%, far greater than the board averages. Active M&A and restructuring not only optimizes resources allocation, but also improve resources service efficiency and company performance.

SZSE Constantly Optimizes the Construction of Business Rules to Consolidate the System Foundation of Front-line Supervision
date: 2017-2-28
Recently, SZSE has finished clearing its business rules for the 12th times and released the eighth batch of annulled business rule directory. The annulled 20 pieces encompass the cases that a rule itself is being amended, its higher law is annulled or it should be annulled for is no longer applicable because of business development. After the clearing, the existing valid business rules total 161 pieces and all of them will be announced and updated in real time in the column of “Laws/Regulations” on the website of SZSE.   Business rules are the cornerstone for an exchange to build a robust front for market stability and the basis for implementing comprehensive and strict supervision according to law. SZSE has always been committed to constructing a business rule system that is transparent in content, clear in structure and unified in form as well as adaptive to the development of multi-layer businesses. In 2016, SZSE has highlighted the development of the following business rule construction. First, with regard to the hotspots and difficulties of market supervision, SZSE continues to enrich the guidance for industrial information disclosure and has successively introduced the trading suspension and resumption business and the memo of the listed companies plus PE cooperation model, rapidly following the changes in market development. Second, to correspond to the commissioning of the new generation trading system, SZSE has fully sorted out the trading-type business rules, enhancing market efficiency. Third, SZSE has revised the guidance for risk warnings on the high-risk securities transaction of member clients and gradually promoted the implementation of the regulatory model of “member-centered supervision”, strengthening the front-line supervision in market transactions. Fourth, SZSE has taken strict precautions against financial risks by reinforcing the supervision over information disclosure on the corporate bond duration and the risk management of pledged repurchase of bonds and improving the management of structured fund investors’ adequacy. Fifth, SZSE has carried out solid work on the Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect related business rule construction and agreement signing to ensure the smooth introduction and stable running of the stock connect, thus standardizing and leading development.  A relevant principal of SZSE stressed that the Central Economic Working Conference has clearly set the general tone of work in 2017 as “seeking progress while ensuring stability”. At the 2017 National Securities and Futures Supervision Conference, Chairman Liu Shiyu repeatedly emphasized that SZSE should play the role of front-line supervision and prioritize the work of preventing market risks. Faced with a new situation where domestic and international environments for the running of capital market grow more complex in 2017, SZSE will continue to perfect the long-term mechanism for formulating, revising, clearing and evaluating business rules and increase its foresight, coordination and transparency in business rules so that it will consolidate the system foundation for performing the function of front-line supervision.  

SZSE Serves National Development Strategies as Capital Market Platform
date: 2017-2-28
— SF Holding Listed on SZSE via MA and Restructuring   SF Holding officially debuted on the capital market as the opening bell rang in the listing hall of SZSE on February 24, 2017. This is an amazing turnaround on the company’s road of growth, opening a new chapter in its history. After 23 years of hard work and efforts, SF Holding has become the flagship in China’s courier industry, standing as the No. 1 in market occupancy and profit scale in the industry. In 2016, its operating income reached 57.5 billion yuan with the net profit of 4.2 billion yuan.   SF Holding, STO Express, Yunda and other outstanding businesses in China’s courier industry have got listed on SZSE successively, which reveals the deep integration of the industry with the capital market and represents that the spirit stated in the State Council’s Several Opinions on Promoting the Development of the Courier Industry was seriously implemented in the capital market. SZSE will offer full support to the sound, standard and rapid development of the industry.   The SME Board, on which SF Holding was landed via restructuring, takes serving SMEs as its mission and is a crucial connecting force in building a multi-layer capital market. Through nearly 13 years of development, the SME Board has become an efficient financing platform for promoting the growth of SMEs, a significant channel for optimizing industrial structure and resources allocation, and a cradle for cultivating industrial flagship and leading enterprises. It supports listed companies to constantly improve their core competitiveness through diverse approaches such as re-financing, market-oriented merger and acquisition, and restructuring. Also, it has cultivated a bunch of industrial leaders including Hikvision, BYD, Suning Commerce, Goldwind Science and Technology, Anhui USTC Iflytek and Goertek, who set their footholds on the main businesses and endeavor to grow stronger. In addition, with its sound market image and development trend, the SME Board also draws many model enterprises like SF Holding and Focus Media to join the vigorous platform. With the market value of over 230 billion yuan, SF Holding has expanded into a company boasting the largest market value in Shenzhen.  Over the past 26 years, SZSE, as an important institution in the capital market, has supported the listing of more than 1,900 companies whose market value totals more than 23 trillion yuan. Accordingly, SZSE has accumulated rich practical experience in and solid market foundation of serving enterprises, serving the local and serving the real economy. Next, SZSE will fully play its role of platform to constantly improve the construction of a multi-layer market system and enhance its capacity of financial infrastructure operation. Under the strong leadership of CRSC, SZSE will continue to be down to earth to make progress while ensuring stability, do solid and practical work and innovate so that it will serve more innovative start-ups and enterprises and unleash new forces of growth, endeavoring to serve the real economy and the general picture of the national “13th Five-year” development strategy from a high level and greater scope.

JDEC Renamed as CNPCCCL, Kicking off a New Journey in Capital Market
date: 2017-2-10
Recently, Jinan Diesel Engine Company Limited (hereinafter referred to as JDEC) successfully completed the implementation of major asset restructuring, swapping out the original assets and liabilities and swapping in 100% equity stake of CNPC Capital Co., Ltd., CNPC’s subordinated financial holding platform. At the night of February 9, 2017, JDEC disclosed announcement that the company’s name would be changed as CNPC Capital Company Limited, while the company’s abbreviation changed as CNPCCCL. On February 10, 2017, CNPCCCL held a ceremony in SZSE celebrating its name change, which kicked off a new journey in the capital market.   The trading amount of the underlying asset of the restructuring, 100% equity stake of CNPC Capital Co., Ltd., was as high as CNY75.5 billion, breaking the record of the trading scale of merger and acquisition in A-share market in 2016. CNPC Capital covers a full range of financial businesses, including financial companies, banks, financial leasing, trust, insurance, insurance broker and securities, owning a complete range of financial business licenses. Via the major asset restructuring, CNPC’s financial sector materialized overall listing. In this transaction, 8,742,517,285 common shares were offered by CNPC Capital, whose total market capitalization will be more than CNY170 billion after listing. As a subordinated company of CNPC that specialized in financial business,  CNPC Capital will become a platform for the financial business integration, financial equity investment, financial asset supervision, financial risk control of CNPC.   Relevant principal from SZSE indicated that the capital market’s features of open and transparence, price discovery, perfect company governance are important carriers for boosting SOE supply-side structural reform, optimizing state-owned asset layout. CNPCCCL’s successful debut in the A-share market becomes a significant benchmark marking Shenzhen securities market’s support to the SOE reform and implementation of industries integration.  It is expected that, taking capital market as platform, state-owned capital operation as carrier, and merger and acquisition as pivot, and becoming stronger, better and larger as ultimate goal,  SOE reform will release a steady flow of reform bonus. SZSE will further deepen the multi-layer capital market development, keep on strengthening the function of supporting the SOE reform, and continually enhance the ability of serving the real economy.

SZSE to Solicit Public Opinions on the Guideline on Risk Management over the Duration of Corporate Bonds (Exposure Draft)
date: 2017-1-26
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) recently issued the Guideline on Risk Management over the Duration of Corporate Bonds (Exposure Draft) (hereinafter referred to as “the Guideline”) and is soliciting opinions from the public. This is an act to consolidate the risk management system of the bond market, enhance market players’ (including bond issuers and trustees’) awareness and capability of active management of bond credit risk, and protect investors’ legitimate rights and interests. In accordance with the risk-oriented systematic management principle, the Guideline defines market players’ (including bond issuers and trustees’) responsibilities of risk management during risk monitoring, screening, pre-warning, elimination and handling and primarily establishes a sustainable and normalized risk management system that is centered on bond issuers and trustees, overarches the bond duration and covers all market players.   A responsible SZSE principal explained that the Guideline mainly contains the following key points. First, to strengthen market players’ practice of risk management responsibility and define a working mechanism that each performs its duties and cooperates with division of labor. The Guideline requires that bond issuers should formulate a management system for the bond principal and interest payment, ensure repayment funds in advance, perform the obligation of information disclosure, prevent and solve bond risk events, and cooperate with bond trustees and other competent institutions to carry out the tasks on risk management. Meanwhile, bond trustees should follow the risk-oriented principle to perform tasks on risk management over the duration, such as risk monitoring, classification, screening, pre-warning, elimination and handling. Other organizations of credit enhancement and credit rating etc. should work with bond issuers and trustees in risk management. As to bond investors, they should constantly evaluate the credit risk of the invested bonds to invest reasonably and safeguard their rights. Second, the Guideline, with consideration of domestic and overseas regulatory experience in risk management, tentatively states the basic standards on the classification of bond risks and classifies corporate bonds into normal, attention-required, risky and default types as per the extent of credit risk. Bond trustees should make reasonable estimates in line with the classification standard, officially determine the bond risk level by taking into account the risk evaluation and screening results, give timely feedback to bond issuers on the risk factors that would affect principal and interest payment, and urge bond issuers to solve the credit risks. As to the attention-required bond, issuers should consider the important risk matters to develop practicable measures addressing the credit risk and implement them. In terms of the risky bond, issuers and credit enhancement organizations should work out specific and feasible credit risk resolutions and handling plans and put them into practice. Third, to establish a regular and irregular risk management report system. The Guideline stipulates that bond trustees should biannually submit a report to SZSE stating the bond risk classification within their entrusted management scope and the situation of work development on credit risk management. Also, they should submit an interim report on credit risk management with regard to the important matters in risk monitoring, screening, pre-warning, elimination and handling. In addition, in terms of the situation where a bond issuer issues multiple bonds and employs different bond trustees, the Guideline requires each trustee to put more efforts on cooperate with each other to perform their respective risk management responsibility for their entrusted bonds.   The principal also said that the Guideline is a crucial move for cooperating with CSRC’s market-oriented reform in the corporate bond market, further propelling the steady and sound development of this market and guiding issuers and intermediaries to perform their duties in their respective places. The deadline for the opinion solicitation is February 10, 2017. After that, SZSE will seriously sort out the opinions of all market players, improve relevant content in the Guideline in time and then release for implementation in accordance with procedures.

Share Purchase Agreement of PSX's Equity Stake Signed Today
date: 2017-1-23
The signing ceremony of the Share Purchase Agreement of PSX’s Equity Stakes was held on January 20, 2017 in Karachi by a consortium and the equity sale committee of Pakistan Stock Exchange (PSX). The consortium is consisted of China Financial Futures Exchange, Shanghai Stock Exchange, Shenzhen Stock Exchange, China Pakistan Investment Company Limited and Pakistan Habib Bank. Pakistan Finance Minister Senator Ishaq Dar, Chairman Zafar Hijazi of the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan and Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Sun Wei Dong attended the ceremony. Chairman Liu Shiyu of China Securities Regulatory Commission sent a congratulation letter.   According to the Share Purchase Agreement, the consortium gets 40% equity stakes in PSX where the total shareholding by three Chinese exchanges amounts to 30%. Next, the consortium will work in the reform direction specified in Pakistan’s Stock Exchanges Act (2012), such as fully consolidating PSX’s efforts in developing multi-layer stock market, bond market and derivatives market, enhancing technical level and investors’ perception and strengthening investor protection, to boost the faster and better development of PSX and capital market.

SZSE Commends Outstanding Contributors to the Collaborative Construction and Rollout of SZSE New Generation Trading System
date: 2017-1-23
As of the beginning of 2017, Shenzhen Stock Exchange's (SZSE) new generation trading system (i.e. the 5th generation trading system) has been commissioned for about eight months. On January 19, SZSE held a review meeting on the running of the system and commended the outstanding units and individuals contributing to the collaborative construction and rollout of the system. Attendees of the meeting totaled more than 200, including CSRC authority and department leaders, technical principals and representatives of member and fund companies and other relevant units, CSDC Shenzhen’s relevant principals, and representatives of SZSE’s construction project team.   With the joint efforts of multiple market participants, the new generation trading system independently researched and developed by SZSE had its trial run on May 9, 2016 and was officially put into use on June 6 of the year, having safely run for 173 trading days since then. During this period, it supported the collaborative switching online by batches and steps of transaction participants and underwent the test of an innovative business Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Overall, the system has run stably with sound performance delivered in various performance indicators. The peak order rate exceeded 200,000 orders per second and the average time delay of order processing approximated 1.1 milliseconds, with the expected design target delivered and the safe running record of near 15 years kept.   SZSE started the adaptability improvement of the technical system for market participants in April 2014 and implemented Plan “Pioneer”. During the construction and rollout of the new generation trading system, member and fund companies and relevant units have paid great attention by meticulously organizing relevant work and making active input. According to SZSE’s overall work arrangement and requirements, they earnestly carried out all tasks related to the system, actively participated in all SZSE-organized tests, and completed as schedule the improvement and switching online of collaborative technologies. At the review meeting, SZSE expressed gratitude to the people participating, caring and supporting the construction and rollout of the system, awarded honor certificates to five developers of the market participant system and seven service providers of market information and commended 19 securities companies and seven fund companies participating in Plan “Pioneer”. Meanwhile, the contributors from the 12 member units and four fund companies were granted with “Award of Outstanding Contribution”.   Director Zhang Ye from CSRC Information Center made warm congratulations on and affirmed the construction and successful rollout of the system. He pointed out that the system is not only the embodiment of multiple technical breakthroughs, but also a rewarding trial in implementing industrial safe and controllable requirements, upholding the concept of independent research and development, practicing the open-source and opening-up strategy and achieving opening-up technical transformation, facilitating the mutual improvement and collaborative development of industrial technologies. It is hoped that based on the successful commissioning of the system, SZSE will continue to innovate in technologies to create first-class exchange IT and play a bigger role in industrial technical development, thus providing strong technical support to the stable development of capital market.   General Manager Wang Jianjun of SZSE said constructing and rolling out the new generation trading system is a milestone in the technical development history of Shenzhen securities market and could not have been possible just on SZSE’s own. It is the result of the joint efforts of CSRC authorities, CDSC, securities and fund companies, as well as other market participants! He told that SZSE has always valued highly the development and construction of technical systems and will pursue in the “scientific, safe, efficient and practical” directions by taking the core strategy of “technology lead, independence and controllability, resource integration and constant optimization”. Through realization of new business demands and constant improvement of technologies, SZSE is moving forward the development of the 5th generation trading system. Meanwhile, SZSE will forge leading platforms of application technologies for trading, supervision, information service and business operation by applying mobile internet, big data, artificial intelligence and other advanced technologies so as to enhance the informatization, automation, intelligentization and facilitation level of business handling and services for greatly advancing sci-tech and intelligent supervision. In addition, SZSE will build first-class infrastructure and is to deliver an exchange technology ecosphere featuring aggregation effect and win-win cooperation through Southern Data Center, financial cloud and financial data exchange platform. General Manager Wang wished that member and fund companies as well as relevant units will summarize the experience and spirit in building the fifth generation trading system and keep them up and will energetically continue to support and cooperate on the construction of SZSE technical systems to jointly contribute to building secure, efficient and advanced infrastructure of the securities market.

Greatwall Computer’s Merger of GWI by Way of Absorption Successfully Implemented
date: 2017-1-18
The other day, the absorption and merger of Greatwall Information Industry Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “GWI”) by China Greatwall Computer Shenzhen Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “Greatwall Computer”) was successfully implemented. On January 18, the stock of GWI was delisted and the additional shares of Greatwall Computer via share swap were listed on Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE). After the merger, Greatwall Computer will be an important carrier for the independent and controllable computing of China electronics and a key platform for the information security of military and civilian integration. This is a great strategic step of China Electronics Corporation’s implementing state strategies and network security and informatization system engineering and a significant move of State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission in moving forward the reforms of large-scale SOEs.   In this merger by way of absorption, the transaction volume amounted to 23 billion yuan and the transaction plan involved multiple parts including share swap, ownership transfer, cash option and delisting. With the full support of SZSE and CSDC Shenzhen, the companies completed cash option on November 23, 2016 and finished the ownership transfer of Zhongyuan Electronics, Shengfeifan and AOC, progressing smoothly in tasks related to the absorption and merger. According to the scheme for absorption and merger via share swap, Greatwall Computer offered shares to all shareholders of GWI to acquire all shares held by them. Once the merger is completed, GWI would be delisted and cancel its corporate capacity while Greatwall Computer as a survival company takes over all the assets, liabilities, rights and interests, businesses and staff of GWI. The stock offered for the transaction totaled 1,502,165,589 shares, accounting for 53.16% of the total capital stock of Greatwall Computer after the transaction and 1,167,457,683 of which are tradable from the date of listing.   The principal from SZSE said that capital market, as the main ground and channel for SOE reforms, has been playing the roles of “assistor” and “accelerator”. The successful absorption and merger of GWI by Greatwall Computer is a key expression of the capital market’s service and support to SOE reforms and a great achievement of listed companies which integrate industrial resources and carry out development strategies through capital market. Upholding the aim of serving the real economy, SZSE will further reinforce the capital market function of serving SOE reforms and support and drive the supply-side structural reform, thus better serving the state strategy of innovation and entrepreneurship.

SZSE Holds the 48th Meeting of the 3rd Board of Directors
date: 2017-1-16
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) held the 48th meeting of its Board of Directors on January 13. At the meeting, the 2016 work summary and 2017 work plan of the Board and the management team were briefed; reports on the launch and running of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect, the equity bidding for an overseas exchange and the work on poverty alleviation were made; and revisions of relevant business rules were deliberated.   SZSE’s achievements made during the past year were fully acknowledged at the meeting. It was believed that in 2016 SZSE has earnestly carried out the decisions and deployment made by CPC Central Committee, State Council and China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). Specifically, SZSE has developed in great depth the studies on the theoretical and practical issues of party building; constantly facilitated the CPC Central Committee’s inspection and rectification; fully underpinned party building by steadily consolidating the basis of strengthening self-discipline of the Party and itself; moderately moved forward the construction of a multi-layer market system; kept strict comprehensive regulation according to law; safeguarded secure and steady market running; actively improved its capacity of market cultivation and service to serve supply-side structural reform, innovation and entrepreneurship and real economy development; and smoothly completed various significant capital market jobs including the launch of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect and the new generation trading system. During the past year, the Board has earnestly fulfilled its duties and shouldered its responsibilities. Particularly, the Board has developed overall plans on the development strategies of SZSE, propelled and intensified front-line regulatory duties, supported and steadily drove international cooperation, enhanced the quality and efficiency of internal management, and completed a large number of fruitful jobs, ensuring the normal and orderly running of various tasks of SZSE.   At the meeting, it was also stressed that 2017 will be a year full of challenges where the many uncertain market factors will aggravate the tasks of stabilizing, constructing and developing the market. SZSE should firmly implement the fundamental policies of CPC Central Committee and State Council, earnestly carry out CSRC’s deployment and arrangement, study the spirit of 6th Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee in great depth, and constantly and comprehensively move forward strict Party self-discipline. Specifically, SZSE should follow the principle of making improvement while ensuring stability to fully strengthen risk control and make breakthrough in the key projects in key areas, intensify law-based comprehensive and strict regulation to ensure secure and stable running of the market, research and develop reform plans for the ChiNext board to better support and serve innovation and entrepreneurship, steadily move forward the ETF stock option pilot to enrich and improve a multi-layer product system, and organize the fifth plenary session to optimize the governance structure of SZSE. In 2017, SZSE should broadly gather the strength of all parties to the market to make agreement and form resultant forces. As a result, it will build itself into an important fundamental platform for supporting the real economy and serving state strategies so as to serve from a higher level and greater scope the overall situation of the “13th Five-year” state development strategies and meet the victorious opening of the CPC 19th National Congress with practical moves.

Listing Cultivation Base for Zhongguancun Innovative Start-ups Is Officially Commissioned
date: 2017-1-12
The morning of January 10 witnessed the commission ceremony of the Listing Cultivation Base for Zhongguancun Innovative Start-ups (hereinafter referred to as “the Base”), which was jointly held by Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), Beijing Municipal Bureau of Financial Work, Zhongguancun Administrative Committee, Government of Haidian District and Zhongguancun Equity Trading Services Group. At the ceremony, SZSE also launched SZSE Z Non-SOE 60 Index and inaugurated together with Torch Center of Ministry of Science and Technology the Zhongguancun Sci-tech Financial Roadshow Center. Sui Zhenjiang, Deputy Mayor of Beijing, and Wu Lijun, Chairman of the Board of Directors of SZSE, attended and addressed the commission ceremony.   Co-built by aforesaid five parties, namely, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), Beijing Municipal Bureau of Financial Work, Zhongguancun Administrative Committee, Government of Haidian District and Zhongguancun Equity Trading Services Group, the Base is designed to assemble all powers to facilitate the full connection between Zhongguancun innovative start-ups and capital market so as to build a comprehensive capital market service platform that is based in Beijing and radiates the surrounding area. This is an important move of SZSE to work with interested parties to intensify the supply-side structural reform in financial field and enhance the service function of capital market to the real economy, innovation and entrepreneurship.   Commission of the Base is the first time that SZSE provides localized financial services to enterprises in the area through the form of joint construction, which will further improve the service capacity and level of Zhongguancun base. While closely centering on Beijing municipality’s strategic needs of stepping up the construction of a national science and technology innovation center and building an advanced and sophisticated economic structure, SZSE will fully play its roles of base market cultivation, communication, information research, exhibition to the outside, remote exchanges and radiation to the surroundings. Through this move, SZSE will built with other parties a joint cultivation mechanism for key enterprises and make financing instrument innovation in the fields of supporting enterprise listing, M&A and restructuring, international development and the R&D of key technologies. The comprehensive investment and financing service system for Zhongguancun start-ups will be further improved via batches of leading enterprises cultivated through the Base.   Deputy Mayor Sui said that SZSE has become one of the most dynamic platforms for capital market by closely following the front of China’s reform and opening-up. With the strong support of SZSE, the “Zhongguancun board” in capital market has been scaling up and growing more competitive. Currently, there are 282 listed A-share companies in Beijing, 201 of which are at Zhongguancun and 161 are listed on SZSE. Out of the 161 SZSE-listed, 144 are at Zhongguancun. In addition, 97 listed companies of Zhongguancun are included in the underlying stocks of Shenzhen Stock Connect. Zhongguancun base is the first listing cultivation base that SZSE sets up in areas outside of Shenzhen and a crucial exploration of strengthening the supply-side structural reform in financial sector. Zhongguancun Sci-tech Financial Roadshow Center is also a crucial roadshow center built in Zhongguancun by SZSE and Torch Center of Ministry of Science and Technology. Centering on how to further make the Base to play its roles and better drive the construction of a multi-layer capital market in Beijing, Deputy Mayor Sui offered three opinions. First, to build the Base into a brand service window compatible with the construction of a national science and technology innovation center to let it play a leading and exemplary role in the country. Second, to grow the Base into an important platform connecting all sorts of financial service resources to provide all-chain services to technical enterprises. Third, to make the Base as an essential channel for making and promoting policies to further play the important function of experimental field for Zhongguancun reforms.   SZSE Chairman Wu expressed that SZSE has always been committed to constructing a multi-layer capital market and taken supporting self-innovation and serving SMEs as its mission. The multi-layer capital market of SZSE market has become a gathering place of new economy enterprises in China and an engine for innovation and entrepreneurship. As of 31 December 2016, there are 1,870 SZSE-listed companies, 92% of which are state high-tech enterprises and over 70% of which are in strategic emerging industries and with their R&D input averaging 5.35%. In the process, SZSE has kept a long-term close cooperative relationship with Zhongguancun, from which 144 companies are listed on SZSE and 86 out of these 144 companies are listed on ChiNext Board. Across China, Zhongguancun is an area featuring the most ChiNext Board-listed enterprises, which has helped form a characteristic Zhongguancun Board. Constructing Zhongguancun base is a new exploration of SZSE to constantly extend the service chain for innovation and entrepreneurship and integrate relevant service resources, as well as deepen the capital market’s function of serving the real economy. Relying on Zhongguancun base and stressing the support to innovation and entrepreneurship, SZSE will play the roles of base market cultivation, communication, information research, exhibition to the outside, remote exchanges and radiation to the surroundings and establish a comprehensive service platform that is based in Beijing and radiates the surrounding area, therefore, providing market players with integrated, professional and localized services.   Commission of the Base and inauguration of Zhongguancun Sci-tech Financial Roadshow Center will further enhance the service capacity of Zhongguancun base, improve the comprehensive investment and financing service system for Zhongguancun start-ups and accelerate the construction of an advanced and sophisticated economic structure, which then will constantly bring the construction of a national science and technology innovation center and a state sci-tech financial innovation center to a new level.  

SZSE Z Non-SOE 60 Index Released Today
date: 2017-1-12
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. (SSIC) recently announced to issue SZSE Z Non-SOE 60 Index (Code: 399697, Abbreviation: Z Non-SOE 60) on January 10, 2017. The index takes December 31 2008 as the base date and 1000 point as the base value.   SZSE Z Non-SOE 60 Index, following CNI Z 50 INDEX and CNI Z A-SHARE COMPOSITE INDEX, is further extension of and supplement to the Zhongguancun (Z-park) series indexes. Jointly developed by Zhongguancun Listed Companies Association and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd., SZSE Z Non-SOE 60 Index, the compiling plan of which incorporated the representativeness, profitability, and investment value of Zhongguancun private enterprises, establishes a scale plate for the performance of Zhongguancun companies listed in Shenzhen Market, offering for investors a valuable instrument for sharing the development bonus of relevant enterprises.   With Zhongguancun Science Park registered private enterprises, which listed in Shenzhen Market as sample space, and with market proportion of their total market capitalization, free float market capitalization and turnover volume as selection indicators, top 60 stocks of the rank were selected as sample stocks for SZSE Z Non-SOE 60 Index. The index adopts free float market capitalization weight, adjusting the sample stocks regularly on January and July every year.   As statistics showed, from the base date to the end of 2016, SZSE Z Non-SOE 60 Index realized substantial excess earnings comparing to CNINFO A Share Index, with the accumulative revenue of SZSE Z Non-SOE 60 Index being 425%, while that of CNINFO A Share Index of the same period being 191%. The weights of enterprises in strategic emerging industries including new generation information technology, energy conservation and environment protection, bio-pharmaceutical, and high-end equipment manufacturing industries as high as 79%, reflecting the major innovative and scientific features of Zhongguancun enterprises listed in Shenzhen Market.   More specific material on the Index can be found on the website of CNI Index (http://www.cnindex.com.cn）.  

Expanding Info Disclosure Channels and Pressing Ahead with Reform and Innovation
date: 2017-1-4
––SZSE Opens a Self-disclosure Channel for Stockholders Equity Changes The "Stockholders Business Section" of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) has recently put on line, signaling the official commission of the disclosure channel for stockholders equity changes. This is another important move of SZSE to implement strict and comprehensive supervision, actively respond to new market situations and issues and deepen the reform of information disclosure system to protect investors' legitimate rights and interests.   Timeliness, fairness and accuracy of stockholders equity changes disclosure being the great market focus   The information of stockholders equity changes often exerts huge impact on the stock price of listed companies and has always been the message of great attention to investors. As per the current practice, disclosure of this information is performed by the companies entrusted by stockholders.   In recent years, as the disputes on equity of listed companies increase and sometimes listed companies fail to fully cooperate with stockholders to fulfill the information disclosure obligation and stockholders equity changes are not disclosed in a timely manner, investors' right to know has been seriously impaired. Under the background that our capital market construction is developing in the legalized, opened and transparent directions, the timeliness, fairness and accuracy of information disclosure on stockholders equity changes is closely followed by the market.   Active response to new market situations and issues to open a disclosure channel for stockholders equity changes   As the frontline supervisory organization for listed companies, SZSE has actively responded to new market situations and issues. While constantly consolidating the awareness of stockholders information disclosure, SZSE has designated a "Stockholders Business Section" on its website, providing a second channel for disclosing stockholders equity changes to stockholders and further enhancing the effectiveness of information disclosure.   According to the released Guideline for Listed Companies' Stockholders Business, the self-disclosure channel for stockholders equity changes is of the following features: First, strict user registration procedure to ensure authentication. Before disclosing information, stockholders have to register online via the help of listed companies or perform self-registration online and activate as SZSE. When registering, stockholders need to provide identity certification documents based on their entity nature. Second, complete coverage of disclosure announcements on stockholders equity changes to enhance disclosure efficiency. After registration, stockholders can submit various kinds of equity change announcements, such as equity change reports, tender offer reports, equity change progress announcements and pre-disclosure reminder of share lessening. At the early stage of system running, SZSE receives information after closing of the day and examines the application of stockholders information disclosure and stockholders may submit the examined information to media for disclosure. When conditions grow mature in the future, stockholders equity changes will be disclosed directly. Third, stockholders are allowed to use the same account to disclose changes of equity in different listed companies, improving business handling efficiency. After registration, stockholders can add stockholding information on the other companies via the function of "Rights Management" and disclose relevant information using the same account.   Competent principal from SZSE said that the system affords stockholders with the initiative to disclose information and allow them to fulfill their disclosure obligation within a time as short as possible, fully protecting market entities' right to know and improving the compliance of equity change information disclosure. The system further specifies the principal status of stockholders as the person responsible for equity change information disclosure, consolidates their information disclosure awareness, urges them to fulfill their duty and assumes due disclosure responsibility. It also enables the connection with Hong Kong and other overseas markets and narrows the gap between domestic and overseas information disclosure systems, thus providing a more convenient and effective market environment to domestic and overseas investors and further strengthening the results of the interconnection brought by Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect.   Constantly pressing ahead with the reforms and innovation on information disclosure to improve frontline regulatory efficiency   In recent years, SZSE have been sticking to the core of information disclosure system to constantly drive the reforms and innovation on information disclosure. Specifically, it has taken the lead in introducing the direct bus system of information disclosure and the early morning disclosure system, fully implemented the industrial supervision model and established two industrial information guidelines based on the emerging industries and the traditional industries receiving high market attention. The series of reform and innovation measures have worked for enhancing the disclosure efficiency and quality of SZSE-listed companies and relevant parties, improving the transparency of the multi-layer capital market of SZSE market and protecting the legitimated rights and interests of investors.   In the future, SZSE will continue to follow the leadership of CSRC to implement strict and comprehensive regulation, constantly optimize information disclosure system with information disclosure as the core, steadily intensify frontline regulation and urge relevant entities to fulfill information disclosure obligation, thus propelling the sound development of the multi-layer capital market of SZSE market.  

New Requirements on Periodic Reports Disclosure to Enhance Info Disclosure Efficiency
date: 2017-1-4
–— SZSE Revises Memoranda on Matters Regarding Periodic Reports Disclosure To implement the requirements stated in the CSRC-amended principles on the content and format of periodic reports and further normalize matters on the disclosure of SZSE-listed companies' periodic reports, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) has recently revised the Memoranda on Matters Regarding Periodic Reports Disclosure. This will enhance the efficiency of information disclosure related to periodic reports.   A principal from SZSE explained that the overall principle of the revision is centered on information disclosure, improving and elaborating disclosure requirements while strengthening disclosure supervision and restraint. During the revision process, specifics on the periodic reports disclosure of the main board, the SME board and the ChiNext board were improved according to their own features. Particulars include the following three aspects:   First, new requirements on periodic reports disclosure are defined. In accordance with CSRC's revision spirit on periodic reports, provisions on social responsibility disclosure, such as poverty alleviation and environmental information, are detailed. Requirements on the social responsibility of precise poverty alleviation are defined and the concept of key pollutant discharging units is specified. Also, the disclosure on goodwill impairment risk is reinforced, with companies being asked to disclose the operating conditions of the basic assets forming goodwill and the influence of goodwill impairment on the operating performances of listed companies.   Second, the connection between implementing industrial information disclosure guidelines and disclosing periodic reports is consolidated. When disclosing periodic reports, listed companies are required to refer to the applicable industrial information disclosure guidelines and disclose industrial information in corresponding parts so as to improve the content pertinence of information disclosure.   Third, the disclosure channel for periodic reports is unified and new disclosure content is added. With regard to the daily frequent asked matters on periodic reports disclosure, SZSE, taking into account the regulatory practice, has defined requirements on disclosure time, including application term for delayed disclosure, information disclosure requirements, early report on failure to disclosure periodic reports in specified term. In addition, the disclosure on delisting risk evaluation of companies violating laws and regulations and coping measures is newly added and the disclosure channel for raised funds usage and external guarantee is specified.   Moreover, the principles of state secret and trade secret disclosure exemption and the concept of "material"/"major" in periodic report principles are defined in the revision. The disclosure requirements on the employment of innovative sales models are also stated.   The SZSE principal also said that SZSE will continue to take into account regulatory practices and board features to constantly improve regulatory efficiency and organize comprehensive training on listed companies' periodic reports disclosure to help them better understand and implement relevant rules and improve information disclosure quality, as well as protect investors' right to know.  

Earnestly Fulfilling Social Responsibility, Improving Poverty Alleviation Information Disclosure
date: 2017-1-4
On November 2015, the Party Central Committee and the State Council made a strategic decision on overcoming poverty. On September 2016, China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) published Opinion of CSRC on Capital Market’s Role on Serving to the National’s Strategy of Overcoming Poverty, (hereinafter referred to as Opinion), making specific arrangement and requirement on implementing the national’s strategy on poverty alleviation.   As initiative respond to the Central State Council’s strategy decision, and earnest implementation of CSRC’s work arrangement, SZSE continuously explored the depth and breadth of poverty alleviation, strengthen the intensity of poverty alleviation circling around the Four Comprehensive Strategic Layouts, giving a full play to the SZSE’s role in serving the national’s Overcoming Poverty Strategy. First of all, SZSE have carried out targeted aiding in poverty-stricken regions such as Wushan County in Gansu, and Makate County in Xinjiang with multiple measures. Based on local featured industries, SZSE actively launch poverty alleviation via developing industries. SZSE provided development fund to the entrepreneurs and farmers in poverty-stricken regions via ‘Shenyintong’ and ‘Shennonghui’, reinforced the input on poverty alleviation via education, poverty alleviation via relocation, health poverty alleviation, ecological protection poverty alleviation and infrastructure construction. Secondly, in line with the work deploy of CSRC, SZSE facilitated those entrepreneurs which registered or produced products or operated in poverty-stricken area, and those entrepreneurs which meet the specification in Opinion, in issuing corporate bonds, asset-backed securities, and adopted special personnel and special examining and approval process policy upon these entrepreneurs, guiding more financial power into the poverty-stricken area. Thirdly, SZSE reinforced the training on financial cadres and entrepreneurs in poverty-stricken area, established exchanging system with the financial cadre taking a temporary post. SZSE also organized special training course so as to expand the poverty-stricken area financial cadres’ and entrepreneurs’ idea of development local economy. Financial cadres two-way communication system has been launched, with specialized persons in SZSE sent to the poverty-stricken area to work in the local government, or work as financial consultants, so as to improve the listed service system, and tracking and serving the related entrepreneurs.   Meanwhile, SZSE launched Guidance on Social Responsibility of Listing Companies, encouraging public companies to shoulder social responsibility and disclose information. In 2015, 93 public companies listed in Shenzhen Market disclosed specifically the information regarding fulfilling the social responsibility of poverty alleviation. For example, OCT Holding disclosed the information regarding targeted aiding Tianzhu and Sansui counties in Guizhou. Moreover, some listed companies disclosed the provisional report regarding the events such as launching poverty alleviation Industry Fund, Setting up Industries in poverty-stricken area, launching infrastructure construction in poverty-stricken area, participating in poverty alleviation charitable activities, implementing poverty alleviation donation.  These events reflected strong social responsibility of the listed companies.   SZSE recently released Circular on Listed Companies’ Information Disclosure Regarding Poverty Alleviation Work (hereinafter referred to as Circular), aiming at improving the information disclosure of listed companies on fulfillment of precise poverty alleviation social responsibility.   The Circular specify the requirement on listed companies’ social responsibility. Firstly, the summary, specific fruit and the following up plan of poverty alleviation is required to disclosed on the Major Event Chapter of annual report of listed companies.  Companies which disclose social responsibility are required to disclose the implementation of precise poverty alleviation separately as a key part in the social responsibility report.  Moreover, if the events involved in the precise poverty alleviation work carried out by listed companies (including external investment, etc.) reach the standard of provisional report, the listed companies should fulfill the obligation of information disclosure in time. Secondly, requirement of quantitative disclosure is increased. I.e. listed companies are required to disclose the specific fruits in 8 fields including poverty alleviation via industries development, and poverty alleviation via transfer of employment with data. Thirdly, listed companies are encouraged to disclose the major progress regarding setting up poverty alleviation industry fund, participating poverty alleviation charitable activities, implementing poverty alleviation investment projects in the form of temporary report, so that to facilitate the investors to know the relevant information of listed companies’ implementation of precise poverty alleviation.   At the same time, in order to facilitate listed companies to disclose the poverty alleviation social responsibility precisely and comprehensively, SZSE revised the annual report filling template, and will introduce the disclosure requirement in the special training of compiling annual report.     Relevant principal of SZSE indicated that SZSE would give a full play to its advantages and propel works of poverty alleviation solidly under the unify leading of CSRC. In the meantime, base on information disclosure, SZSE will continue to guide the listed companies to fulfill the precise poverty alleviation social responsibility, providing sound support to the objective of building a well-off society comprehensively.    

CFFEX, SSE and SZSE Takes Stake in Pakistan Stock Exchange
date: 2016-12-30
Recently, China Financial Futures Exchange (CFFEX), Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), Pak China Investment Company Limited and Habib Bank Limited as a consortium have won the bid to purchase a 40% stake in the Pakistan Stock Exchange. The three exchanges will hold 30% of Pakistan Stock Exchange’s shares.   Pakistan Stock Exchange is the only national stock exchange in Pakistan formed by consolidation of Karachi, Islamabad and Lahore stock exchanges. Pakistan Stock Exchange offers trading in stocks, bonds and derivatives Products.   The investment is conducive to broadening of the economic and financial cooperation between the two countries and facilitates the implementation of the Initiatives of One Belt One Road and China-Pakistan Economic Corridor. The investment puts new contents in the traditional friendship between China and Pakistan. Under the premise of controllable risks, the Consortium will implement the follow-up of equity acquisition in line with the principle of equality, cooperation, mutual benefit and win-win situation.

Sample Stocks Adjustment Will Be Made to SZSE Component, SME, ChiNext and SZSE 100 Indexes
date: 2016-12-12
According to the rules on construction of index numbers, regular adjustment will be made to the sample stocks of the SZSE serial indexes including SZSE Component Index, SME Index, ChiNext Index and SZSE 100 Index, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. (SSIC) announced. SSIC also disclosed that CNINDEX 1000 and other cross-market indexes will experience similar periodical changes in their sample stocks. The change will be officially made on the first trading day of January 2017.   In this round of regular adjustment, 50 sample stocks of SZSE Component Index will be shuffled, with First Capital and Perfect World replacing Jidong Cement and Santai Holding, just to name a few. For SME Index, 10 sample stocks will be changed, with Do-fluoride and Victory Precision replacing LYPM and Lianhetech, for example. For ChiNext Index, 6 samples stocks will be changed, for instance, with Tongyu Heavy Industry and All Winner Technology replacing Xiangxue Pharmaceutical and Dinghan Tech. For SZSE 100 Index, 10 samples stocks will be changed, with SJEP and Hualan Biological Engineering replacing XCMG and Bluefocus, for example.   After the re-arrangement, the coverage ratios of SZSE Component Index in the total market value and free flow market value of Shenzhen A-share market will be 53% and 56% respectively. In SZSE Component Index, its sample stocks include 156, 227 and 117 stocks respectively selected from the main board, SME board and ChiNext board, with the weight of each board being 43%, 48% and 18% respectively. The ratios are more similar to the real distribution of each board in Shenzhen market. In the adjusted SZSE 100 Index, the number of sample stocks from SME board increases from 33 to 38 and the board weight goes up to 31% while ChiNext board still keeps 16 units in the sample stocks but its weight rises to 14%.   Statistics shows that after the adjustment, the industrial distribution and structure of the core indexes of Shenzhen market further highlight the market's strategic positioning of serving emerging industries and new economies. In SZSE Component Index, 228 sample stocks fall into the state strategic emerging industry, with their weight being 46% of the total. In SME Index and ChiNext Index, 47 and 75 sample stocks are from the state strategic emerging industry respectively, with their respective weight being 49% and 79%. In addition, in SZSE Component Index, information technology industry still holds the largest weight, 23%. Industries occupying the second and the third largest weight (17% and 14% respectively) are discretionary consumption and finance & real estate. In ChiNext Index, the weight of information technology industry amounts to 49% and the total weight of emerging industries, including information technology, medical and health, discretionary consumption, substantial consumption and telecom business, approximates 80%.   After the adjustment, the core indexes of Shenzhen market will features the high-growth of SZSE-listed companies. In accordance with the Q3 report of 2016, the year-on-year net profit growth rates of the latest round of sample stocks of SZSE Component, SME, ChiNext and SZSE 100 Indexes are 15%, 14%, 57% and 5% respectively and the new profit growth rate of CNIDEX A, which reflects the whole A-share market, is 2%.

SZSE Hong Kong Subsidiary Signs MOUs with Four Hong Kong Securities and Funds Associations
date: 2016-12-9
China Innovation Market Service Company Limited (CIMS), a subsidiary of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) in Hong Kong, signed memorandum of understanding with Chinese Securities Association of Hong Kong (HKCSA), Hong Kong Investment Funds Association (HKIFA), Hong Kong Securities Association (HKSA) and Hong Kong Securities and Investment Institute (HKSI) on December 5, 2016, the launch day of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect. Mr. Jin Liyang, Executive Vice President of SZSE, Ms. Wang Yixuan, Head of the CIMS, President Tan Yueheng of HKCSA, Chairman Arthur Bacci of HKIFA, Chairman Miao Yingyuan of HKSA and Chairman John Maguire of HKSI attended the signing ceremony.   Jin indicated that in the process of market construction, SZSE has been paying great attention to motivating market players' initiatives and letting intermediaries and member units to play their roles. The signing associations and institutes have accumulated rich experience in professional constant training courses, membership management and supervision, and consultancy on securities industry policy making, making paramount contributions to driving the development of securities and funds industries of Hong Kong. Taking the opportunity of launching Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect and making the starting point of MOU signing, SZSE will deepen the connection with Hong Kong securities institutions and strengthen the cooperation with Hong Kong capital market from a higher, broader and deeper extent.    In accordance with the MOUs, the signing parties plan to organize promotion and training activities centering on Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect and SZSE market to build information sharing mechanisms and jointly research on the topic of Shenzhen-Hong Kong capital market cooperation.   China Innovation Market Service Company Limited was established in September 2016 as Hong Kong- incorporated wholly-owned subsidiary of SZSE and the first institution SZSE set up overseas. It will fulfill the responsibilities related to Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect, develop market promotion, and build efficient communication platforms to facilitate overseas investors' in-depth participation in SZSE market.  

Address by CSRC Chairman Liu Shiyu at the Launch Ceremony of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect
date: 2016-12-8
Dear Guangdong Provincial Party Committee Secretary Hu Chunhua, Shenzhen Municipal Party Committee Secretary Ma Xingrui, Shenzhen Mayor Xu Qin, Honorable Leaders and Representatives from the State Council, Dear SFC CEO Mr. Ashley Alder, Friends, Colleagues and Ladies,   Good morning. Today we are gathered here to witness the launch of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect program. At this historical moment marking the continued synergetic development of the Mainland and Hong Kong capital markets, on behalf of China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), I would like to express my warm congratulations on the launch of the program and my heartfelt thanks to the relevant departments under the State Council, Guangdong Provincial Party Committee of the CPC, Guangdong Provincial Government, Shenzhen Municipal Party Committee and Shenzhen Municipal Government for their care and support given to the preparatory work on the program. The launch of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Connect on the basis of the success of pilot Shanghai-Hong Kong Connect is another major decision of the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping as the core to unswervingly promote the opening up of China’s financial industry and is also the solemn commitment of the government to the people of the whole country in the 2016 Report on the Work of the Government. Under the correct leadership of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council, China financial sector honors this commitment today.   The 26 years’ history of China’s capital market proves that only by unswervingly expanding opening up can we ensure the direction of market-oriented, rule-based and international development of China’s capital market and solidly improve China’s capital market’s ability to serve the real economy and enhance China’s capital market’s international competitiveness.   Shanghai-Hong Kong Connec has been operating successfully for two years. And Shenzhen-Hong Kong Connect will start operation today. It embodies the great importance and kind care given by the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping as the core to the initiative to consolidate and enhance Hong Kong’s status as an international financial center.   Amidst uncertainty and instability of global financial markets, the launch of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect will certainly inject positive energy, confidence and trust into international and domestic financial markets. Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect and Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect are like two flowing rivers where the capital, technologies, information, wisdoms and cultures of the Mainland, Hong Kong and global markets coverge and ultimately benefit the Mainland, Hong Kong and global economic development. Regulators from the two sides will further strengthen close cooperation, tighten supervision of the Mainland and Hong Kong markets, step up cross-market enforcement, crack down on cross-boundary illegal activities and market misconduct and earnestly protect the legitimate interests of the Mainland, Hong Kong and global investors.   At this point, I would also like to express my sincere thanks to the exchanges and clearing houses in Shenzhen and Hong Kong and the institutions and colleagues that have participated in the preparatory work. You have made arduous and painstaking efforts for the smooth launch of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect. My special thanks go to all the leaders and guests who are here today to attend this launch ceremony. Your care and powerful support are indispensable for the reform and development of the capital market. Finally, I wish Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect a good start, a smooth sailing and every success.   Thank you.  

Address by Shenzhen Municipal Party Committee Secretary Ma Xingrui at the Launching Ceremony of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Connect
date: 2016-12-8
Dear Guangdong Provincial Party Committee Secretary Hu Chunhua, Dear CSRC Chairman Liu Shiyu, Dear SFC CEO Mr. Ashley Alder, Distinguished Leaders and Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen,   It is with great pleasure today that we are gathered in Shenzhen, the showcase of China’s reform and opening up at the historic moment to witness the official launch of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Connect. This is another major event in China’s opening up of the capital market following the launch of Shanghai-Hong Kong Connect. I believe this will definitely exert a positive and profound influence on the reform and development of China’s capital market and will vigorously promote the joint development of the financial and securities markets of the Mainland and Hong Kong, in particular those of Guangdong Province and Hong Kong. On this occasion, entrusted by Guangdong Provincial Party Secretary Hu Chunhua and Governor Zhu Xiaodan, on behalf of Guangdong Provincial Party Committee, Guangdong Provincial Government, Shenzhen Municipal Party Committee and Shenzhen Municipal Government, I wish to extend my congratulations on the successful launch of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Connect, and extend sincere welcome to all our distinguished leaders and guests.   The securities industry is the core component of the nation’s modern financial system, and also an important force to boost transition in economic growth drivers and to achieve mid and high-end development under the new economic normal. As China’s key financial province, Guangdong has always given priority to the development of the financial and securities industry, accelerating the planning of financial and securities institutions, and enhancing the composition of securities and other financial institutions. So far, 464 companies in the province have been listed domestically, fully demonstrating the role of the securities and capital markets in facilitating the province’s innovative development, economic transformation and upgrading. According to the deployment of the central government and the provincial government, Shenzhen actively promotes innovative growth of the securities industry. Shenzhen has built a number of major platforms including Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), Qianhai Equity Trading Center and HKEx-Qianhai Joint Trading Center. We have introduced and cultivated 20 securities companies, 24 public fund companies, 13 futures companies and 221 domestically listed companies. Thus we have gradually built up a dynamic and well-functioning multi-tiered capital market system. With the strong support and boost from financial and securities markets, the economic growth of Guangdong and Shenzhen has achieved a new level. For the first three quarters of this year, Guangdong province’s GDP grew 7.3%, and local general budget revenue increased by 14%. Shenzhen’s GDP  witnessed a growth of 8.7%, two percentage points higher than the national level in the same period, while local general budget revenue jumped by 20.1%, ranking No.2 among 36 provincial budgeting units. We are proud to say that Shenzhen is actively leading the new normal economic growth with a robust development momentum.   Currently, we are conscientiously implementing the spirit of the Sixth Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee and will resolutely safeguard the core leadership role of General Secretary Xi Jinping. Guided by the important instructions given by General Secretary Xi Jinping during his inspection tour to Guangdong and Shenzhen, we will take the lead in implementing the “Four Comprehensives” and practicing the “Four Confidences”, and accelerate our efforts in achieving the goal of “Three Positionings and Two Leads”. In the process, we need to both vigorously promote the real economy that centers on the high and new technology industry and the high-end manufacturing industry, and better utilize the important supporting role of the multi-tiered capital market for the real economy. We will accelerate the dual-wheel driving model and positive interaction between the financial industry and the real economy and further strengthen the sustainable economic development capacity. We hope that China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), other state financial regulatory authorities and various domestic and overseas financial organizations and institutions will take the opportunity of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Connect to strongly support fund-raising by listing, merger and acquisition and corporate restructuring by more companies from Guangdong, and help more quality enterprises consolidate in size and strength so as to generate new growth drivers for regional economic development. Meanwhile, we will continue to fully support the work of the CSRC and the development of financial institutions in Guangdong and Shenzhen. Together with them, we will speed up development in Guangdong as a strong financial province and Shenzhen as an international financial and innovation center and strive to make more contribution to the overall national development.   Finally, I wish Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect a great success!   Thank you.  

Address by SZSE Chairman Wu Lijun at the Launch Ceremony of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect
date: 2016-12-8
Dear Guangdong Provincial Party Committee Secretary Hu Chunhua, Dear CSRC Chairman Liu Shiyu, Shenzhen Municipal Party Committee Secretary Ma Xingrui, SFC CEO Mr. Ashley Alder, Distinguished Leaders and Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen,   Welcome you to Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) for the launching ceremony of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Connect and witness this historic moment of the Chinese capital market.   The CPC Central Committee and the State Council have attached great importance and offered kind support for Shenzhen-Hong Kong Connect Program. Under the unified leadership of China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), SZSE, China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited (CSDC), Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEx) and Hong Kong Securities Clearing Company Limited (HKSCC) have made concerted efforts in close cooperation and jointly completed a series of preliminary preparations such as technical system development, rule-making, market organization and mobilization, international road shows and investor education. Today, our hard work has finally yielded fruits and we are here waiting for the exciting moment of the launch of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Connect. On this occasion, on behalf of all the staff of SZSE, I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to the CPC Central Committee, the relevant ministries and commissions under the State Council, the Mainland and Hong Kong regulators, Guangdong and Hong Kong governments, our peer organizations, market institutions, investors and news media for their strong support.   Four days ago, SZSE celebrated its 26th birthday. Thanks to the attention and support from all parties concerned over the past 26 years, SZSE has made significant progress in all aspects. SZSE constantly improves its front-line supervision system, optimizes its core technical systems, enhances its risk control capability and steadily reinforces its foundation for reform, innovation and opening up. Up to date, there are 1848 listed companies on SZSE with a total market capitalization of RMB 23 trillion. All the main market indicators of SZSE are among the top bourses in the world. Listed companies have a distinctive feature of innovation and entrepreneurship and more than 70% of them are state-certified hi-tech enterprises. This fully reflect the positive results of the capital market serving the real economy, the remarkable results of transition and upgrading of China’s economic structure, the huge vitality and potential of China’s new economy.   As another sound step of China’s capital market towards internationalization, the launch of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Connect will further enhance the international competitiveness of the Mainland and Hong Kong markets and their abilities to serve the real economy. It is a memorable historic moment and also will mark a brand new historic starting point. After the launch of the Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect, we will strengthen close cooperation with all parties concerned, spare no efforts in ensuring the smooth operation of the program, give full play to our front-line supervisory function, jointly crack down on market manipulation, insider trading and other illegal activities and properly protect the legitimate interests of domestic and overseas investors. Standing at the new starting point, we will intensify front-line supervision, push forwards progress in rule system, product system, technology system and management system. In the process, we are able to accumulate experience, lay foundations and create conditions for further in-depth development of Shenzhen-Hong Kong cooperation.   All distinguished guests, the launch of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect heralds a new era of full mutual access between the Mainland and Hong Kong markets. Shenzhen and Hong Kong are close neighbors separated only by a strip of water. The link between Shenzhen and Hong Kong is a link to the world, to hopes and to the future. We believe that under the strong leadership of the CSRC, SZSE, HKEx, CSDC and HKSCC will earnestly perform their duties and join hands to write new chapters of mutual market access.   Finally, I wish Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect a smooth launch and successful sailing forward.   Thank you.

Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect Officially Launches on Dec. 5
date: 2016-12-6
Hu Chunhua and Liu Shiyu beat the gong to mark the launch   Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect officially launched on Dec. 5, 2016 and Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and Hong Kong Stock Exchange (HKSE) simultaneously held launch ceremonies. At the ceremony of Shenzhen bourse, Mr. Hu Chunhua, member of Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Secretary of Guangdong Provincial Party Committee, and Mr. Liu Shiyu, Secretary of CSRC Party Committee and Chairman of CSRC beat the gong to mark the market opening on the launch day of the Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect. Mr. Liu Shiyu, Mr. Ma Xingrui, Deputy Secretary of Guangdong Provincial Party Committee and Secretary of Shenzhen Municipal Party Committee, and Mr. Wu Lijun, President of SZSE Council, addressed the ceremony in succession. On the site, Shenzhen and Hong Kong bourses made video contact.   Liu said that launching Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect on the basis of successful Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect trial is an important decision made by the CPC Central Committee with President Xi Jinping as the core to unswervingly move forward the bilateral opening-up of financial market and a solemn commitment made to the people in the 2016 Report on the Work of the Government. Also, he expressed that only by unswervingly expanding opening-up could the marketized, legalized and internationalized orientation of capital market be kept, the service level of capital market to real economy be enhanced, and the international competitiveness of China's capital market be improved, which is proved in the experience of developing China's capital market. The two links between the mainland and Hong Kong bourses will be flowing rivers that assemble the capital, technologies, information, wisdom and culture of the mainland, Hong Kong and global markets so that they will further benefit the economic development of the mainland, Hong Kong and the world. Financial regulatory institutions in the mainland and Hong Kong will cooperate closely to strengthen their market supervision and cross-border law enforcement and crack down cross- border market manipulation and other illegal behaviors to protect investors' legitimate rights and interests.   According to Mr. Ma Xingrui, Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect will exert positive and profound influences on the reform and development of our capital market and will greatly advance the mutual development of financial and securities markets of the mainland and Hong Kong, especially Guangdong and Hong Kong. Guangdong always prioritizes the development of financial and securities industries, making securities and capital markets fully play the role of boosting provincial innovative development and economic transformation and upgrade. In addition, he expressed the hope that financial regulatory authorities and domestic and overseas financial organizations and institutions will take the launch of the Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect as an opportunity to step up the dual-core dive and benign exchange between financial industry and real economy so as to inject more new energies into regional economy development.   President Wu Lijun indicated that the official launch of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect marks another firm step of our capital market made in the efforts of going international and signals that the mainland and Hong Kong will consolidate cooperation in broader scope, higher level and greater depth to jointly enhance both markets' international competiveness and ability of serving real economy. SZSE will make close cooperation with all parties and spare no efforts in ensuring stable market trading and running. Moreover, it will fully play its front-line regulatory function to crack down market manipulation, insiders trading and other illegal actions to protect domestic and overseas investors' legitimate rights and interests.   Attendees at the ceremony to witness the historic moment include leaders Zhou Bo, Cao Yu, Jiang Yang and Fang Shangpu from relevant state departments; Mr. Ashley Alder, Executive President of Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong and Chairman of International Organization of Securities Commissions; Guangdong provincial leaders Zou Ming and Lan Fo'an; Mayor Xu Qin of Shenzhen Municipality; President Wu Qing of the Council of Shanghai Stock Exchange; as well as representatives of relevant state ministries and departments, Hong Kong governmental departments, securities and futures regulatory system, SSE members, listed companies, domestic and overseas financial institutions and investors, press media, and Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect constructers. SZSE General Manager Wang Jianjun and HKSE CEO Li Xiaojia held the ceremonies respectively in Shenzhen and Hong Kong.

Deals on the Official Launch of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect
date: 2016-12-6
On the launch day of the Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect, the market was operating smoothly and trading remained stable. SZSE Component Index closed at 10784.33 points, down by 128.3 points or 1.18%.  Hang Seng Index closed at 22505.55 points, down by 59.27 points or 0.26%.   On the part of Shenzhen Stock Connect, shares bought in amounted to CNY 2.669 billion. The quota spent was CNY 2.711 billion, with CNY 10.289 billion left. The trading involved 464 stocks, 169 of which are on the main board, 247 on the SME board and 48 on the ChiNext Board and with their trading amount being CNY 1.478 billion, CNY976 million and CNY 215 million respectively.  On the part of Hong Kong Stock Connect, shares bought in amounted to HKD 902 million (CNY 823 million) and shares sold amounted to HKD 21 million (CNY 18 million). The quota used was HKD 850 million, with HKD 9.65 billion left. The trading involved 348 stocks, 78 of which are large-cap stocks, 151 mid-cap stocks, 99 small-cap stocks and 20 index-excluded AH stocks and with their trading amount being HKD 43 million (CNY 38 million), HKD 315 million (CNY 279 million), HKD 512 million (CNY 454 million) and HKD 52 million (CNY 46 million).   

Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock-Connect Operates Smoothly in the Morning Session of Launch
date: 2016-12-6
On the first day of the launch of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock-Connect, the market was operating smoothly and trading remained stable. In the morning session, SZSE Component Index closed at 10802.25 points, down by 110.3 points or 1.01%. ChiNext Board closed at 2145.96 points, up 2.51 points or 0.12%.   On the part of Shenzhen Stock Connect, shares bought in amounted to CNY 1.578 billion. The quota spent was CNY 1.607 billion, with CNY 11.393 left. The trading involved 394 stocks, 144 of which are on the main board, 204 on the SME board and 46 on the ChiNext Board and with their trading amount being CNY 900 million, CNY 548 million and CNY 130 million respectively.   On the part of Hong Kong Stock Connect, shares bought in amounted to HKD 525 million (CNY 480 million) and shares sold amounted to HKD 8 million (CNY 7 million). The quota used was HKD 521 million, with HKD 9.979 billion left. Only 321 stocks were traded.      

SSE, SZSE to Adjust the Requirement for Mortgaged Securities of Margin Trading and Securities Lending, to Expand the Underlying Stock Scope
date: 2016-12-6
To further improve the business structure of Margin Trading and Securities lending, strengthen the management thereof, and facilitate the long-term and stable development of Margin trading and Securities Lending, Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) and Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), with the approval of China Securities Regulatory Commission, amended Implementation Rules on Margin Trading and Securities Lending, and adjusted the requirement for conversion rate of mortgaged securities, turning the conversion rate of those stocks with static P/E ratio of more than 300-fold or stocks with negative static P/E ratio as 0. Meanwhile the two stock exchanges will expand the scope of underlying stocks for margin trading and securities lending, incorporating 950 underlying stocks instead of the existing 873 stocks. The number of underlying stock will expand from 485 to 525 on SSE, and expand from 388 to 425 in SZSE. The above adjustment will be effective as of December 12, 2016.   Conversion rate of mortgaged securities refers to the ratio of mortgaged securities converted to margin.  Securities company will take a proportion of margin when lending money or securities to clients for margin trading and securities lending. In addition to cash, the margin could be substituted by stocks of listed companies, securities invested fund, bond money market funds. Conversion rate of mortgaged securities determine the amount of margin would be converted by the mortgage securities submitted by the investors.   After the adjustment to the conversion rate, the stock with static P/E ratio of more than 300-fold and stock with loss performance will not be converted as margin. According to the dividing principle of new and oldspider rules, investors, whose contract open before the implementation of new rules (before the market close on December 9, 2016) , do not need to close a position or increase margin for the lack of margin due to the adjustment of the rules, and could handle the extension of the contract according to relevant regulations and stipulation of contract. At the same time, to facilitate the actual operation, both SSE and SZSE require the securities companies to adjust to the conversion rate of the mortgage securities in line with static P/E ratio on the last trading date of every week, with the adjusted conversion rate coming into effect on the next trading day. After the adjustment to the conversion rate of mortgage securities, the quality of guaranty will be improved and the risk of margin trading and securities lending business will be further lower down. The adjustment, guiding investors to the rational investment and value investment, is thus beneficial to enhance margin trading and securities lending and sound and stable development of capital market.   Underlying stock refer to the stocks traded in margin trading and securities lending. As stipulated on the Implementation Rules on Margin Trading and Securities Lending, the stock exchanges should determine the underlying stocks according to the gradual expansion principles of from stick to loose, less to more, and disclose to the market.   Before this, the stock exchanges have expanded the scope for underlying stocks for 4 times. This time, 77 underlying stocks will be included in the scope of underlying stocks. The newly selected underlying stocks are mainly stocks of low PE ratio, with large circulation market value, of active trading, and with stable market performance. The expansion of the scope of underlying stocks, with larger coverage of underlying stock, thereof satisfy the diversified investment needs of the investors.   Matching with the adjustment, SSE and SZSE will establish a regular assessment adjustment mechanism for underlying securities, conducting two-way adjustment to the underlying securities at the end of every quarter, removing the unqualified underlying securities and add in the eligible and high quality underlying securities, so as to maintain the stability of the number of underlying securities and optimize the structure of underlying securities, lower down the risk for investors.

SZSE Actively Serves Supply-side Structural Reform
date: 2016-12-6
The 12th China (Shenzhen) Derivatives Forum, co-sponsored by China Futures Association and Shenzhen Municipal Peoples Government and co-organized by Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), was held at Shenzhen Wuzhou Guesthouse from December 2nd to December 4th, 2016. General Manager Wang Jianjun attended the forum and delivered a speech.   He said SZSE, being an important financial infrastructure of China, has actively served the supply-side reform and economic transformation and upgrade mainly from five aspects. First, SZSE has played its role of resources allocation to boost economic structure adjustment. The motive energy of transformation has been newly included in the IPO of new companies. From January to November 2016, 101 companies of the Shenzhen market made their IPOs and financed 39.006-billion yuan. Restructuring and re-financing have facilitated the stock optimization configuration. Also from January to November 2016, 433 companies completed their restructuring and re-financing, raising 59.3581-billion-yuan funds. Among them, the main board has intensified the function of capital market to serve SOE reform, the SME board has consolidated the aggregation effect and the ChiNext board has constantly expanded its breadth and depth of service to entrepreneurial innovation. Fixed-income instruments have facilitated enterprise financing and optimized the debt structure of companies. As of December 2nd, there were 2,734 listed fixed-income instruments whose custody face value amounted to 1.21 trillion yuan, a double of that at the end of 2015. Efforts of service for people's livelihood, green and inclusive finance and other key fields have been improved, which drove innovation in corporate bond products. Second, SZSE has served and supported innovation and entrepreneurship, underpinning new forces for development. Business startups and innovations by the general public have become strategic tasks for propelling structural transformation and upgrade under the economic new normal. Serving and supporting innovation and entrepreneurship are the mission and responsibilities of SZSE. Without the support of capital market, strong forces would not be available for innovation and entrepreneurship; and the absence of support for innovation and entrepreneurship would make capital market lose its vigor and vitality. Among the over 1,800 companies listed at SZSE, 70% of them are high-tech enterprises and the ChiNext board-listed high-tech entities account for 93% of the 70%. SZSE has become a gathering place of China's new economy and is the ideal listing place of technical and innovative enterprises. In the future, we will continue the efforts to expand and deepen our service to effectively transform more social resources into innovative capital and turn more technologies and creative ideas into better products and service, therefore, all-roundly serving the upgrade and transformation of the real economy and the growth of innovative enterprises. Third, SZSE has intensified efforts in market promotion and cultivation to improve the level of market cultivation service. It has formed an all-round market service system that includes services of key enterprises, regional promotion, product promotion and professional training. Fourth, SZSE has earnestly implemented strict and comprehensive regulation according to law and fully reinforced the front-line supervision over listed companies. Taking supervision of information disclosure as the core, SZSE has constantly moved forward supervision by industry and by category and increased the pertinence and efficiency of information disclosure supervision. Fifth, SZSE has kept improving transaction systems to perfect trading environment, enrich product system and boost market interconnection.   General Manager Wang indicated that stock options are standardized products on exchange and mature derivative instruments in financial market, featuring the functions of price discovery and risk management. Expanding the pilot of stock options helps strengthen the investment and financing function of the exchange spot market. As the launch of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock-Connect is coming, both domestic and foreign investors hope SZSE will provide corresponding risk hedging instruments. SZSE's development of stock option business aims to serve the multi-layered spot market and the real economy. SZSE's developing stock ETF option business holds favorable spot goods basis and large market demands. The stock ETF options will be effective risk averse tools for index investment and contribute to the expansion of indexing investment in emerging industry stocks, which caters to the needs of investors and Shenzhen market development.   By far, SZSE's options preparation work has been in order, the spot market runs stably and SSE's stock options pilot has been operated steadily with sound functions. All these are signs that condition for expanding stock ETF options to SZSE are in place.

The First Investment and Financing Roadshow of China's Marine SMEs Kicks Off
date: 2016-12-2
GUANGZHOU, Nov. 25 (Xinhua, reporters Liu Shiping and Shen Anni) The first investment and financing roadshow of China's SMEs and project promotion was held in Zhanjiang, Guangdong on November 25, with participants including eight marine tech SMEs and a number of investment institution representatives attended the roadshow. These eight SMEs are from coastal cities of Shandong, Tianjin, Shanghai, Fujian, Guangdong and Hainan etc.   The marine SMEs are mainly distributed in three industries of marine engineering equipment manufacturing, healthy marine aquaculture and marine information service. Their projects involve remotely operated vehicles (ROV), marine high-speed unmanned vessels, aquafarm construction and Beidou satellite communications technology products. Among them, the "high-performance automated unmanned surface vessels" project of Zhuhai Yunzhou-Tech Co., Ltd., one of the eight SMEs, seeks 300-million-yuan financing for construction of an unmanned vessel R&D and testing base, R&D of new projects and market development. The "commercial ROV operation system" of AutoSubsea Vehicles Inc. seeks 30-million-yuan financing to speed up its ROV industrialization R&D process, integrated application system development and market promotion.   Statistics show that China's gross ocean product in 2015 amounted to about six trillion yuan, accounting 9.4% of the total GDP. This reflects that marine economy has become an important pillar of the national economy and is an essential carrier of reform and opening-up and the strategic space for future development.   "Currently, marine economy is in a crucial stage of transforming form scale speed type to quality-benefit type. The development potential of eastern coastal areas is being constantly unlocked, characteristic marine industry clusters are gradually shaping and strategic emerging industries like marine engineering equipment manufacturing are growing quickly." Director Zhang Zhanhai of Planning and Economic Division of State Oceanic Administration said the growth of marine SMEs, especially marine tech SMEs, cannot be separated from constant, stable and efficient financing support. Through the investment and financing roadshow of marine SMEs, a platform for exchanges, cooperation and connection can be built between marine SMEs and risk investment and/or PE investment institutions.   Insiders note that marine economy activities feature high risks, high investment, long recovery cycle and strong expertise. At the current stage, quite a few marine SMEs are in investment and financing predicaments. Moreover, the high-risk feature of marine economy and the principles of existing mature financial system (i.e. prudent operation and risk averse) are out of tune. And the development of marine-focused risk and PE investment institutions lags. All these necessitate the accelerated development of a direct financing market service system that includes investment and financing roadshow.   This roadshow was co-held by the Planning and Economic Division of State Oceanic Administration and Shenzhen Stock Exchange. (Xinhua)

Regulators Approve Launch of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect
date: 2016-12-2
On November 25, 2016, China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong (SFC) jointly approved the launch of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect, which will commence operation on 5 December 2016.   On the same day, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and China Innovation Market Service Company Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SZSE that will provide securities trading service for the connect, announced the list of southbound trading stocks, trading calendar arrangement, list of the first batch of members and other trading participants that are included in the connect and the designated information disclosure websites. They also required these members and trading participants to further enhance technical readiness for the launch of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect.   The eligible trading list of 417 southbound stocks published by SZSE includes 100 constituents of Hang Seng Composite LargeCap Index, 193 constituents of Hang Seng Composite MidCap Index, 95 constituents of Hang Seng Composite SmallCap Index, and 29 A+H stocks that are not included in the above indices, representing 87% of the total market capitalization of all the stocks listed on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (SEHK) and 91% of SEHK’s average daily trading value. The eligible trading list of 881 northbound stocks as announced by SEHK on the same day includes 267 SZSE Main Board-listed stocks, 411 SME Board-listed stocks and 203 ChiNext-listed stocks, representing 71% of the total market capitalization of Shenzhen A-share market and 66% of SZSE’s average daily trading value. The lists of southbound and northbound stocks are now available in the relevant sections of SZSE and SEHK websites respectively for easy access by market participants and will be updated on a timely manner.   The 121 members and other trading participants published by SZSE included 94 members, 27 fund companies and other trading participants. According to an officer from SZSE, in order to ascertain market readiness and urge securities companies to speed up preparation, the CSRC, SZSE and China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited (CSDC) have earlier completed on-the-spot inspections of selected securities companies in Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen and found that securities companies have put in place all the preparations in terms of trading, clearing, technical systems, investor education and investor suitability management. On November 11, the technical systems of SZSE and CSDC first went live. So far, the technical systems of selected members and other trading participants have also been put into operation and are ready for launch.   Next, SZSE will, under the unified arrangement of CSRC and in collaboration with relevant parties concerned, conduct final pre-launch preparations and urge its members to proceed with investor education and service, investor suitability management and risk disclosure in order to ensure the smooth launch and safe operation of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect.  

Instant Translation on SZSE “Easy IR” Goes on Line
date: 2016-12-1
To match up with Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock-Connect, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) recently introduced "Instant Translation", an English translation function, on its "Easy IR" (an Internet-based interactive investor relations service). This enables a convenient means for foreign investors to know about companies listed in Shenzhen market and further perfects the foreign investor service system of SZSE.   At present, this new function is available on both the web version and mobile client of "Easy IR" in the English language environment. Through the function, foreign investors can get instant English translation of the Chinese Q&A on "Easy IR." On web "Easy IR", users can make the mouse hover over the desired Q&A to get its English version. On the mobile client, English translation will automatically display under the original text of Q&As, which improves the operation convenience and user experience for mobile client users.   In the future, SZSE will continue the improvement of "Easy IR" platform service to make it convenient for users to inquire information about SZSE-listed companies and improve user experience so that a quality "one-stop" service platform will be available to domestic and overseas investors.

SZSE Releases Innovation Index Series
date: 2016-12-1
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. (SSIC) announced that SZSE Releases Innovation Index Series would be released on December 1, 2016. The series includes SZSE Innovation Index (code: 399016), SME Innovation Index (code: 399017) and ChiNext Innovation Index (code: 399018).   Sample stocks of each index are the top 100 companies featuring innovative development ability who are respectively selected from Shenzhen market, SME and ChiNext boards, according to the index formulation plan. The innovative development ability is comprehensively assessed based on six indicators (high-tech enterprise qualifications, R&D personnel scale, R&D investment ratio, comprehensive patent evaluation index, return on equity and growth rate of operating revenue) in three dimensions of innovation resources, input and performance. And the indexes are calculated by means of equal weight.   It can be seen from the list of sample stocks that among the 100 sample units of SZSE Innovation Index, 10 units are from the main board, 43 from SME aboard and 47 from ChiNext board, assembling outstanding innovative enterprises including ZTE, Midea Group, BYD, Hikvision, iFLYTEK and ChinaNetCenter.   Data indicates that from 2013 to the end of this October, the accumulated revenue of the three indexes is 224%, 183% and 331% respectively, which tells favorable growth of innovative enterprises. By the end of this October, the respective free flow market value of the three indexes is RMB 1139.5 billion, RMB 860.8 billion and RMB 713.3 billion.   Capital market is an important carrier for implementing innovation-driven development strategies while SZSE is the main listing place for our growth and innovative enterprises. Currently, among the SZSE-listed companies, 70% of them are high-tech enterprises whose market value accounts for 64%. Launching the SZSE Innovation Index Series is favorable to reflect the overall market performance of innovative enterprises and helps guide the listed companies to grow through innovative development, which facilitates the further implementation of China's innovation-driven strategies.

Supporting innovation is the primary mission of Shenzhen Stock Exchange
date: 2016-11-16
President Wang Jianjun’s speech on the Chinese and French Entrepreneurs’ Luncheon   On November 14, President Wang Jianjun was invited to attend the Chinese and French Entrepreneurs’ Luncheon, the supporting activity of the Fourth China-France High Level Economic and Financial Dialogue, and deliver a speech as the representative of Chinese entrepreneurs. Following is the complete text of the speech.   Good afternoon honorable Vice Premier Ma Kai, Minister of Finance Michel Sapin, ladies and gentlemen,   Shenzhen Stock Exchange is one of the two major exchanges in China’s mainland. The total market capitalization of listed companies has exceeded RMB 22 trillion so far this year, and it ranks No. 2 and No. 3 in the world respectively in fund raised by equity and trading value. Shenzhen Stock Exchange is a major force in supporting development in China’s innovation.   Innovation is profoundly changing the structure and quality of China’s economy. Driven by popular entrepreneurship, innovation and Made in China 2025 plan, all sources of innovation have been fully mobilized. China’s economy is changing its power of growth and its economic structure is moving towards medium to high end. Take Shenzhen as an example, once a fishing village, it has become China’s important center of innovation. Approximately 100 thousand companies have been established every quarter this year and interesting entrepreneurial stories are popping up every day. Shenzhen has become a representative and epitome of China’s innovative development. Although China is an oldspider country, it is well capable of self-reinvention. Strong innovative power is flourishing in this ancient land.   Supporting innovation is the primary mission of Shenzhen Stock Exchange. Since 2000, Shenzhen Stock Exchange has focused on serving innovative and growth enterprises. Today, Shenzhen Stock Exchange has over 1800 listed companies, of which more than 70% are hi-tech companies, and 93% of ChiNext-listed companies are hi-tech companies. Shenzhen Stock Exchange has become the gathering place and ideal listing venue for hi-tech companies. In the last three years, revenue and net profit of listed companies have been growing steadily, and revenue and net profit of companies listed on the ChiNext Market has grown as much as 32.4% and 44.3% respectively in this year, fully demonstrating great vitality of China’s new economy.   Innovative China is full of opportunities and Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect opens a new gate. In October, Shenzhen Stock Exchange held global roadshows for Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect. We learnt that international investors were generally optimistic about China’s economic outlook. We were told by many international investors that Shenzhen Stock Exchange is the right market to know about China’s innovation and new economy. In the last three years, the numbers of trading accounts and shares held by QFIIs have doubled. Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect will be launched shortly and will offer new opportunities for international investors to participate in China’s economy.   Although there is a long distance between China and France, the new capital link is taking shape. Take cross-border M&A conducted by companies listed on Shenzhen Stock Exchange for an example, the value has been increasing by 100% for three consecutive years, and the growth rate is even higher this year with total value reaching USD 18.5 billion in the first half. The main destination of cross-border M&A activities is Europe, which contribute substantial investments and jobs to France and other European countries. However, cross-border M&A conducted by our listed companies fails at times as a result of insufficient tools, asymmetric information and lack of experience. In order to better serve listed companies’ strategy of “going out”, high-level exchanges and communications between Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Euronext continue to increase in recent years, and two exchanges jointly explore ways to better serve innovative and M&A activities of enterprises. Last month, two exchanges signed a cooperation agreement with the witness of Mr. Matthias Fekl, State Secretary to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Development of France, and Mr. Maurice Gourdault-Montagne, Ambassador of France to China. We will actively promote market information exchange and cross-listing of index products, facilitate matching of investment and financing, support internationalization of RMB and development of Paris as a financial center.   Gathering people and goods all over the world and let everyone take what he needs. This is the ideal our ancestors had while establishing the market. We will inherit this ideal, promote two-way opening and inclusive development of China’s capital market, and enhance capacity of supporting innovation and serving the real economy. In the future Shenzhen Stock Exchange and China’s capital market will offer more opportunities and options to enterprises and investors from France and the world.   At last, we welcome your visit to China and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange!  

Deepening Industry Regulation and Constantly Improving the Quality of Information Disclosure: SZSE Promulgated the Guidelines on Information Disclosure of Seed and Planting, Construction Machinery and Decoration Sectors
date: 2016-11-16
Recently, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (‘SZSE’) promulgated the Guidelines on Information Disclosure of Seed and Planting, Construction Machinery and Decoration Sectors (‘the Guidelines’). SZSE, by putting investors’ needs at first, took this new measure to fully implement industry regulation and improve the effectiveness and pertinence of information disclosure by listed companies. Two sets of industry information disclosing guidelines satisfy investors’ different needs for information. Since the pilot implementation of industry regulation in 2011, SZSE has been searching for and summarizing the operation rules and risk features of different industries. By taking into account the characteristics of listed companies in Shenzhen stock market, based on the emerging industries and the high-profile traditional industries, SZSE has worked out two sets of guiding systems on industry information disclosure. In recent years, such guidelines were issued one after another for ChiNext board listed companies in eight emerging sectors including broadcasting, films and television, medicals and biomedical products, photovoltaic industry chain, energy-saving and environmental protection services, online gaming, on-line videos, E-commerce and Internet marketing, and for three traditional industries including husbandry and aquaculture, solid mineral resources and real estate. With the promotion of the supply-side structural reform, seed and planting sector, as the strategic and fundamental core sector, greatly benefits from government policies and is attracting growing attention from the market. The construction machinery sector is under great pressure of surplus productivity and in need of transformation and upgrading. Therefore, investors are paying more and more attention to information concerning industry policy adjustment, industry development trend, measures on company transformation and upgrading and etc.. The decoration sector is also getting close attention from investors as the sector is undergoing consumer structure upgrading. Therefore, SZSE formulated the Guidelines to cater to the needs of investors for information disclosure of listed companies in relevant sectors. Focusing on industrial characteristics and risks to require different disclosure contents Relevant officer of SZSE said, the above Guidelines gives comprehensive consideration to the industrial characteristics, investors’ needs and information disclosure cost of listed companies of seed and planting, construction machinery and decoration sectors, and has regulations on information disclosure of listed companies in the above said sectors from the perspectives of periodic report and interim report, first disclosure and continuous disclosure, industrial characteristics and business scope, industrial chain and core competitiveness, value and risk, financial and non-financial information, so as to emphasize the disclosure of industrial characteristics and risks. For example, as for business year of seed industry companies doesn’t overlap with fiscal year, and inventory data doesn’t match with sales data at the end of fiscal year, the Guidelines for Seed and Planting Sector requires seed sector companies to disclose sales data, inventory data and main products sales data of the business year at the end of the business year, so as to facilitate investors to comprehensively understand their business state. As for construction machinery companies constantly try new business mode or new business area during the transformation and upgrading process, the Guidelines for Construction Machinery Sector requires such companies to strengthen risk revealment and disclose the specific contents and relevant risks of new business and sales mode. As for the issue of few information disclosed by decoration companies, the Guidelines for Decoration Sector requires decoration companies to increase the disclosure frequency of business state and disclose their order information quarterly via announcements, so as to facilitate investors to gain more timely, accurate and complete business information. In addition to strengthening of information disclosure obligations, SZSE adjusts the applicability of rules according to its practical industry regulatory experience, so as to fully release the vitality of market players under the condition of risk control. For example, as for the characteristics of new sales mode of construction machinery companies, the Guidelines for Construction Machinery Sector optimizes the requirements for disclosure and review of guarantee for specific loans of dealers by construction machinery companies, and stipulates that the guarantee for bank loans (such loans will be directly paid to construction machinery companies as payment for goods) of dealers by construction machinery companies may be included into the estimated guarantee quota to be reviewed at shareholders’ general meetings. In the subsequent implementation, relevant guarantee will be implemented within the total guarantee quota to improve business efficiency. Formulating regulations via soliciting public opinions to enhance the pertinence and effectiveness of regulations The principle of ‘formulating regulations via soliciting public opinions’ is fully embodied in the formulation of the Guidelines. SZSE publicly solicits opinions from listed companies, market institutions and medium-small investors, and carries out face-to-face communication with listed companies and market institutions via symposium, many opinions from them are included into the final draft of the Guidelines after serious collation and study. According to the results of investors questionnaire, the Guidelines well meets investors’ needs, 83% to 93% investors show concerns about main contents of the Guidelines, more than 90% investors believe that the promulgation of the Guidelines helps them to understand relevant financial situation and investment decisions of listed companies. Relevant officer of SZSE said, SZSE will strictly follow the idea of ‘legal, strict and overall regulation’ to constantly promote industry regulation, and enhance the effectiveness and pertinence of information disclosure of listed companies by rules formulation, regulation during and after relevant event and active guidance, so as to promote the healthy development of multi-level capital market of SZSE.

The Technology System for Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect All Set
date: 2016-11-9
Under the guidance and unified deployment, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) , together with Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited, China Securities Depository Limited (CSDC) set on the preparation work of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect at the beginning of 2015, launched overall business and technology preparation on May, 2016, and initiated officially the market participants technology preparation after the release of Joint Statement on 16 August, 2016, boosting various of technology preparation work comprehensively. So far, six-party joint test, business simulation test, and three total network tests were organized, and drill was launched. The testing results showed that the technology operation was overall normal, and identical with the expectation, fully demonstrated that the Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect all market technology market, business procedures and Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect could co-operate with one another. Based on this background, SZSE and CSDC Shenzhen Branch decided to set the technology system on line first, launching the Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect related technology system on line after the market closed on 11 November, 2016. Meanwhile, the participants of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect business, the first batch that acquired the relevant permission, are required to complete the rollout of relevant technology system before 20 November, 2016.   From 12 September 2016 to 30 September 2016, stock exchanges and settlement companies in Shenzhen, Shanghai, and Hong Kong launched six-party joint test, with 120 market participants (including 95 securities companies, and 17 Fund companies) in Mainland China participated in southward testing. On the basis of two rounds of 66-trading-day simulation test (from 28 December, 2015 to 5 February 2016, from 18 April 2016 to 10 June 2016), a third round of business simulation test from 17 October 2016 to 9 November 2016 was organized, with 128 market participants (including 95 securities companies, and 25 Fund companies) in Mainland China participated in southward testing. The 15-trading-day simulation test will be completed on 9 November. As of 22 October, three rounds of total network test and drill were organized in consecutive weekends via trading production system, with 144 trading participants from Hong Kong market, 125 participants from mainland market (including 95 securities, 24 fund companies) participated in the test until 6 November.   Various of tests, including the southward and northward trading, clearing, non-trading, and corporate actions and all other business scenario of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect, specially demonstrated the co-operation of Hong Kong Stocks Through Securities VCM and Hong Kong Stocks Through Securities Closing Bidding Trading Period (CAS). What is more, SZSE has completed stress test and high availability test of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect trading system, verified that the performance and capacity of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect business in SZSE New trading system are identical to expectation, and that it functioned normally in the scenario of failure of internet line, breakdown of the center of Hong Kong Stock Exchange and the switch of center of SZSE. All the testing result showed that relevant technology system of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect, Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect operation procedure and Shanghai- Hong Kong Stock Connect could co-operate normally, and thus is eligible for setting on line.   After SZSE and CSDC Shenzhen Branch completed the technology setting on-line on 11 November, total network test, all market simulation SZSE and CSDC Shenzhen Branch Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect technology system seeting on-line in advance, operation of first trading day of Shenzhen Market before the initiate of business (not trading day and clearing day of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect) will be organized on 12 November 2016, to confirm the proper operation of market participants and all parts of technology system, after that relevant system will be officially put into operation on 14 November. Meanwhile, the participants who first start the Hong Kong Stocks Through business under Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect will implement the relevant technology system setting on-line based on their technology setting-on-line plan or scheme, after the closing of market on 11 November or 18 November.  

SZSE Promulgated the Memorandum on Name Change of Listed Companies
date: 2016-11-4
In order to further regulate the behaviors of listed companies on name change and promote the healthy development of listed companies, as for some listed companies change their names just for catering to the market, SZSE recently formulated and promulgated the Memorandum on Name Change of Listed Companies based on summarizing the regulatory practice to avoid misleading the market and investors.   The Memorandum focuses on information disclosure to regulate the behaviors of listed companies on name change mainly in terms of the general principle, specific requirements for information disclosure and implementation procedures of name change, and strengthen the supervision during and after the event.   The Memorandum has relevant stipulations on name change (including full name and securities abbreviation change) of listed companies for their operation and business development. Because securities abbreviation is from full name, the Memorandum requires listed companies to follow its relevant stipulations during disclose of full name change, if a listed company is questioned by the market or media after disclosing the announcement on full name change, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (‘SZSE’) will require it to make an explanation and disclose it, and may require it to convene a briefing of investors on Easy IR platform if needed to timely implement supervision during and after the event.   The Memorandum requires listed companies to prudently change their names according to their actual operation situation, requires them not to change their names just for catering to the market to affect its stock price and mislead investors, and requires them to fully disclose the reason and rationality of name change and the matching between the changed company name and business scope. As for any listed company changes its name for business transformation, but such business transformation has not been formally implemented or the changed company name is irrelevant to its business scope, or such behavior is just for catering to the market to affect its stock price, SZSE will adopt the following supervision measures according to the situation: sending an inquiry letter to it, requiring it to make relevant explanation to the market, requiring it to self-inspect whether there is any insider trading and investigate abnormal trading activities in it, or requiring it to correct its noncompliant securities abbreviation.   An officer of SZSE said that SZSE will continue to urge listed companies to strengthen the responsibility consciousness for information disclosure to maintain the healthy and stable development of the market.

SZSE Held the First Face-to-Face Training Session for Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect Program together with CSDC
date: 2016-10-26
On 25 October, 2016, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (‘SZSE’) held the first face-to-face training session for Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect Program (‘the Program’) together with China Securities Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd. (‘CSDC’) in Hong Kong, nearly 120 securities brokers from many broker’s agencies in Hong Kong attended the training.   SZSE listed companies have bright innovative and entrepreneurial features. The Program not only offers special asset classes for overseas investors, but also introduces new investors and funds to Shenzhen stock market. In the training session, SZSE and CSDC respectively made systematic explanation on the basic features of Shenzhen stock market, main system arrangement for the Program, A-share market depository and clearing business and key points of settlement business of the Program, and exchanged with the participants. Most participants reflected that they had a deeper understanding of relevant systems of Shenzhen stock market and the Program, which is good for the broker’s agencies in Hong Kong to further do well investor education for the Program.   In order to comprehensively ensure the Program’s smooth launch and promote relevant organizations in Hong Kong to do well investor education, SZSE will unite CSDC to hold the second face-to-face training session for the Program in Hong Kong on 27 October, 2016.

SZSE, HKEx and CSDC Jointly Carried out the Training Session for Lecturers of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect Program
date: 2016-10-24
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (‘SZSE’) recently organized the first training session for lecturers of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect Program (‘the Program’) in Shenzhen together with Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (‘HKEx’) and China Securities Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd. (‘CSDC’), nearly 400 lecturers from teaching staff of member units and investment advisers of member sales department attended the training.   In the training session, SZSE, HKEx and CSDC respectively made systematic explanation on the key business points and teaching work requirements for the Program, trading features of Hong Kong stock market, and underlying stocks, depository, clearing and issuer business of Hong Kong Stocks Through, and exchanged with the participants. Most participants reflected that they gained a full understanding of key business points and teaching work requirements of the Program, which is good for their companies to do well relevant investor education and service work and lays a solid foundation for the Program’s smooth launch.   Related officer of SZSE said in the training session that the signing of the Four-party Agreement (an agreement signed among SZSE, HKEx, CSDC and HKSCC) marks that the Program has enter the final preparation stage, and all member units should do well their own investor education work to lay a solid market foundation for the Program’s smooth launch. Firstly, they should pay special attention to the teaching work for the Program and well arrange relevant teaching work. Secondly, they should earnestly implement the eligibility management requirements for investors of Hong Kong Stocks Through and actually protect investor’s legal rights. Thirdly, they should continuously strengthen risk education and fully reveal the investment risk of Hong Kong Stocks Through. Fourthly, they should constantly strengthen the vocational study for the Program and enhance the teaching level. Meanwhile, the officer said that the up and running of the Program has a great importance for the capital market of Mainland China to further expand international market space and realize sustainable development. The Program’s smooth launch and steady running can’t be realized without solid investor education work, so all attending institutions should pay high attention to it, carefully prepare for it and implement relevant requirements.   The training session for lecturers of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect Program will be held in Beijing and Shanghai later, so as to cover all member units.

Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. Signed a Cooperation Agreement with Euronext Hong Kong Limited
date: 2016-10-18
Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. recently signed a cooperation agreement with Euronext Hong Kong Limited, both parties aim to carry out innovative cooperation in small and medium-sized technology enterprise investment and financing services and information service platform construction based on their own market and information business advantages. The signing ceremony was held in Shenzhen Stock Exchange (‘SZSE’) with the witness of Mr. Jin Liyang, Vice General Manager of SZSE, and Mr. Matthias Fekl, State Secretary to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Development of France, in charge of Foreign Trade, Tourism and Overseas French Affairs, as well as Mr. Maurice Gourdault-Montagne, Ambassador of France to China. Mr. Jin Liyang said that SZSE has been committed to constructing multi-level capital market system and supporting the international development of venture companies, and will carry out cooperation in personnel training and joint road show and actively prepare for cooperation in product business with Euronext. Meanwhile, Mr. Matthias Fekl expressed that French government supports the internationalization of Renminbi and hopes both exchanges to carry out deep cooperation to promote the development of financial markets of both countries.   In March 2015, SZSE signed a memorandum of understanding on cooperation with Euronext. In June 2016, Euronext signed a framework agreement on index cooperation with Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd., both parties agree to carry out deep cooperation in index quotes cross presentation, index product development and promotion, cross-border index compilation and development and personnel exchange and mutual visit, etc..   The signing of the cooperation agreement will strengthen the information and personnel exchange between SZSE and Euronext and offer small and medium-sized technology enterprise investment and financing services for both countries. Meanwhile, it focuses on the basic function of capital market serving real economy and deepens both parties’ cooperation in cross-border finance, so as to promote the international development of capital market.

Forum on Sci-Tech and Finance Work of National High-tech Zones was Held in SZSE
date: 2016-10-17
On 13 Oct, 2016, a forum on the Sci-Tech and Finance Work of State High-tech Zones was held in Shenzhen by the Torch Center of the Ministry of Science and Technology and SZSE. During the forum titled Sci-Tech combined with Finance Promotes Innovation and Encourages Start-ups, discussions were conducted on how science and technology and finance might facilitate innovation and encourage entrepreneurship, and on the sci-tech and finance work carried out in the national high-tech zones, and the Strategic Cooperation Contract on Joint Promotion of Roadmap Plan 2.0 was signed by the Torch center, SZSE, and 10 high-tech zones including Zhongguancun, Xi’an and Chengdu technology parks. Liu Zhimin, deputy director of the Division of Resources Distribution and Management, Ministry of Science and Technology, Zhang Hu, executive vice mayor of Shenzhen, some others from the management level, and over 230 representatives from more than 120 high-tech zones of the country attended the forum.   It has been 25 years since the first batch of high-tech zones were approved by the State Council in 1991, said Zhang Zhihong, director of the Torch Center. During these years, the high-tech zones succeeded in finding a path for industrialization, have made some speedy and sound development, and contributed to the effective growth of the national economy. In the innovation and entrepreneurship boom, the high-tech zones become the most active area with innovations and start-ups of the highest quality. The key to transition of the development pattern of the high-tech zones lies in the innovation of system and mechanism initiated by financial innovation.      Wang Jianjun, general manager of SZSE, introduced in his speech the work carried out by SZSE in assisting the multilayer capital market in promoting innovation and entrepreneurship. He pointed out that SZSE deems it its duty to support the development of technological enterprises and SMEs. A multilayer capital market has been established on the basis of main board, SMEs board and ChiNext Board listed Companies, serving as a gathering place for innovative companies. SZSE shall make it its mission to promote innovation and entrepreneurship, focus on the reform of ChiNext Board, work out a competitive system for capital formation, effectively assist the social capital in its conversion into the capital for innovation, and play a better role in promoting innovation in an all around way. SZSE shall uphold and adhere to Roadmap of the Development of Technological Enterprises Plan 2.0, optimize its services chain for innovation and entrepreneurship, and assist in the national economic restructuring and transition.   Cai Wenqin, deputy secretary of the People’s Government of Shenzhen, made a speech on behalf of the municipal government. He indicated that the government attaches great importance to the full combination of sci-tech and finance, has made great efforts to develop technological credit and technological insurance. The government aims at establishing a comprehensive services system for sci-tech and finance and a multilayer market system, has laid out a sound pattern for interaction among innovation, startups, venture capital investment and makers, and shall promote the speedy and sound development of sci-tech and finance. The forum is part of the series of activities in the main stadium Shenzhen in the week of “Innovation and Entrepreneurship”. It’s a further step to implement the national strategy to encourage innovation, promote the economic development of state high-tech zones and to breed new energy.   Those who gave speeches on the forum are specialists and professionals from the national ministries, higher education and financial institutions including Zhao Changwen, director of the Division of Industrial Economic Research, Research Center of the Sate Council, associate dean of the Law School of Renmin University of China, Lei Caihua, general manager of the Department of Small Business Finance of China Merchants Bank. Their speeches were on the full combination of sci-tech and finance, and promotion of innovation and entrepreneurship by means of the bond market and etc.   Representatives from Zhongguancun Technology Park, high-tech zones of Shenzhen, Suzhou, Changsha, Chengdu and Xi’an and other national high-tech zones also aired their views. They deeply discussed and exchanges opinions on sci-tech and finance innovation, and the increase of technological innovation and financial supplies in the national high-tech zones.   A review was made on the two-year history of the Roadmap of the Development of Technological Enterprises Plan 2.0 since its implementation, and a ceremony was held for the signing of the Strategic Cooperation Contract on Joint Promotion of Roadmap Plan 2.0. According to the contract, the contracting parties shall jointly promote the construction of a national, pro bono and open information platform for investment and financing with what has been done, and to provide better services for the development of technological SMEs.

SZSE Kicks off Global Roadshows for Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect in Hong Kong
date: 2016-10-14
On October 13, 2016, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEx) kicked off their global roadshows for Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect in Hong Kong. SZSE Chairman Wu Lijun and HKEx Chief Executive Charles Li both addressed at the ceremony. Representatives from SZSE, HKEx and China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited introduced characteristics of the Shenzhen Market, mechanism design of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Connect, and clearing system respectively. Over 600 international investors attended the event.   Mr. Wu Lijun said that the approval of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Connect indicates that a solid step forward has been made in the international, legal and market development of China’s capital market. It will promote the cooperative relationship between the mainland and Hong Kong to a greater scope, a higher dimension and a deeper level. SZSE features innovative new-economy issuers. The connect offers unique asset scope of investment for overseas investors and international capital platform for innovative enterprises. SZSE will take this opportunity to constantly improve service system for international investors and access for foreign capital.   Mr. Charles Li said that the Shenzhen-Hong Kong Connect will further enhance the mutual market access between the mainland and Hong Kong markets and reinforce Hong Kong’s status as the leading offshore RMB asset management center. The roadshow is an important measure to promote competitiveness and attractiveness of both Shenzhen and Hong Kong markets. Ms. Wang Hong, Vice Executive President of SZSE, attended joint press conference after the ceremony and answered questions raised by Hong Kong and international media regarding readiness of technical system, investor protection scheme, trading rules, global roadshow and other matters. “Implementation of investor online voting system is mandatory for companies included in Shenzhen Connect,” Ms. Wang said. “Two exchanges and clearing houses are fully prepared, and overall market testing will be the next step.”  Hong Kong is the first leg for the jointly roadshow, which will take the two exchanges to Europe and North America.   The delegation from SZSE will also hold one-on-one roadshows with several investment institutions in Hong Kong. Prior to the roadshow, SZSE has been engaged in continuous promotion activities and has held several events for foreign investors, in which over 200 investors participated. In the future, SZSE will organize promotion activities for foreign investors on a regular basis.

SZSE Releases Rules on Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect Program
date: 2016-10-12
On September 30, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) formally released eight sets of rules governing the upcoming Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect program, including the Measures for the Implementation of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect Program, the Guidelines on the Management of Investor Suitability for Hong Kong Connect, the Mandatory Provisions for the Risk Disclosure Statement for Hong Kong Connect Trading, the Mandatory Provisions for the Client Agreement for Hong Kong Connect, the Circular on Information Disclosure by Listed Companies and Relevant Issues under Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect, the Guidelines on the Implementation of HKSCC Participation in Online Voting, and the revised Detailed Implementation Rules on Online Voting at Shareholders’ General Meetings and SZSE Trading Rules.   An official from SZSE said that SZSE has drawn on the successful experience of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect when drafting rules for Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect. The structure and main contents of the rules are largely consistent with that for Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect. Meanwhile, the rules highlight SZSE’s characteristics as a multi-tiered capital market by expanding the scope of eligible shares and introducing market capitalization as a screening criterion to prevent the risk of cross-border market speculation and manipulation of small- and mid- cap shares. On top of that, in light of the actual operation experience of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, SZSE adopted input from market on the rules and after communication with all the parties concerned, finalized and released the SZSE-level rules. These rules set out the basic model, trading and settlement mechanisms and regulatory requirements for Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect, clarify the specific requirements on client management by securities companies such as investor suitability management and trading risk disclosure, and fixed the various arrangements for regulation of information disclosure by listed companies under Shenzhen Connect and the relevant persons with disclosure obligations as well as the issues regarding HKSCC’s exercise of shareholders’ rights as a nominee and SEHK subsidiary’s participation in trading as a trading participant in the context of different rules and shareholder structures in Shenzhen and Hong Kong markets.   Among others, as the eligible shares for Hong Kong Connect include part of the constituents of Hang Seng Composite SmallCap Index which generally are small in size with unstable performance and volatile stock prices, the Mandatory Provisions for the Risk Disclosure Statement for Hong Kong Connect Trading place special emphasis on the following risks: firstly, in consideration of the expansion of the scope of eligible shares, requesting investors to note the risk that there may be significant fluctuations in the fundamentals and share prices of some small- and mid- cap companies; secondly, given the existing differences in both rules and systems between Hong Kong and Shenzhen stock markets, noting that due to a lack of delisting risk alerts and pre-delisting arrangements in the Hong Kong market, there exists the risk that shares may be suspended from trading for long or delisted directly and nominee services are likely to be restricted for delisted shares; thirdly, summarizing the characteristics of the so-called “cheating shares” (meaning refinancing instruments like deeply discounted rights issues and share consolidations, in Chinese: Laoqiangu), which have caught market attention lately, after analyzing typical cases, and drawing investors’ attention to the risks that investors’ interests may be damaged as a result of deeply discounted rights issues, placements, and frequent share splits and consolidations by some poor performing, low priced listed companies.   In addition, in order to further regulate information disclosure by listed companies and relevant persons with disclosure obligations under Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect and fully protect domestic investors’ legitimate rights and interests, the Circular on Information Disclosure by Listed Companies and Relevant Issues under Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect further specifies the arrangement for regulation of information disclosure, including overseas investors’ exercise of shareholders’ rights, disclosure of the top ten shareholders in periodic reports, disclosure of overseas investors’ interest changes, etc., and clarifies the trading suspension and resumption arrangements for A+H companies as well as the principle of compliance with more onerous and stringent disclosure requirements when disclosing the same event in the two markets that have different disclosure rules.   From August 26 to September 9, SZSE had solicited public opinions and comments from market and the relevant trading and clearing participants on the Measures for the Implementation of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect Program, the Guidelines on the Management of Investor Suitability for Hong Kong Connect, the Mandatory Provisions for the Risk Disclosure Statement for Hong Kong Connect Trading and the Mandatory Provisions for the Client Agreement for Hong Kong Connect and received 91 responses from brokerage houses, the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong (SFC), the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (SEHK), law firms and individuals. The respondents generally accept these rules and they also proposed some good opinions and suggestions for optimizing and refining these rules. SZSE adopted 41 responses after careful study and made improvements to the relevant rules.   Among others, SZSE revised 13 articles of the Measures for the Implementation of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect Program based on 25 responses (relating to 18 areas), added 5 articles to and revised 8 articles of the Mandatory Provisions for the Risk Disclosure Statement for Hong Kong Connect Trading based on 15 responses (relating to 10 areas), and added 1 article to and revised 17 articles of the Mandatory Provisions for the Client Agreement for Hong Kong Connect based on 46 responses (relating to 42 areas). The responses adopted by SZSE mainly concentrate on increasing risk disclosure in respect of the areas of particular concern, clarifying specific operations based on actual business operation and refining phrasing of rule clauses. As for other suggestions such as lowering or scraping the investor suitability requirements for Hong Kong Connect investors and adjusting dividend tax, SZSE will study and deal with them in due course in conjunction with the relevant parties concerned as time is ripe with the development of the market.   The official added that the promulgation of these rules indicates that the business rules framework for Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect has been in place and the basic institutions have become systematic. Next, SZSE will, under the unified arrangement and leadership of China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and in close collaboration with relevant parties concerned, proceed with various business and technical preparations in a down-to-earth manner, deepen market organization, investor education and business training and go all out to ensure the smooth launch and safe operation of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect program.   Measures of Shenzhen Stock Exchange for the Implementation of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect Program

SZSE Promulgated Relevant Guidelines for Book Building of Corporate Bonds to Further Regulate the Issuance Business of Corporate Bonds
date: 2016-10-11
As approved by China Securities Regulatory Commission (‘CSRC’), Shenzhen Stock Exchange (‘SZSE’) recently formulated and promulgated the Guidelines for Book Building Issuance Business of Corporate Bonds (hereinafter referred to as “the Guidelines”). According to CSRC’s overall arrangement, the Guidelines is promulgated after several rounds of opinions solicited from the market, discussion and revision. It aims to implement CSRC’s work requirements of ‘legal, strict and overall supervision’, further promote the healthy development of bond market, regulate the book building issuance business of corporate bonds, and protect the legitimate rights and interests of all transaction parties.   The Guidelines fully consider the characteristics of the bond market of SZSE, cover the existing book building business of public offering corporate bonds (including corporate bonds issued to public investors and issued to eligible investors), and further regulate the issuance pricing and placement behaviors of corporate bonds in primary market to prevent interest transport. It regulates book building business mainly in the following aspects:   1. It regulates all the elements of book building, including the applicable scope, bookkeeping place, business participants, requirements for bookkeeping scene and basic methods of book building. As for public offering of corporate bonds, underwriters and issuers may independently choose to carry out book building in the place of the underwriter or SZSE; as for private placement of corporate bonds, no compulsory bookkeeping are required due to characteristics such as flexible product design, few investors and private placement.   2. It regulates bookrunners to establish and perfect relevant risk control system and operating procedures, and improve work papers filing system. It regulates the responsibilities of each participant, including clearly defining the responsibility range of bookrunners and strengthening their internal control management system, preventing various risks with the core of interest conflict in book building, prohibiting participants to violate fair competition, have improper interest transport and unfairly treat different kinds of investors during the book building. Besides, it clearly defines relevant requirements for bookrunners on keeping documents and data related to book building.   3. It clearly defines the self-regulatory responsibility for SZSE. SZSE may irregularly organize book building inspection work together with CSRC, and take regulatory measures or disciplinary actions against anybody in violation of the Guidelines, including regulatory measures like interpretation and explanation, written warning, interview or reporting to CSRC according to the seriousness of the case, and disciplinary actions like a notice of criticism or public censure according to the seriousness of the case as for those seriously violate relevant laws and regulations as well as the Guidelines.   The Guidelines further defines relevant requirements for market participants, it is operational, practical and flexible, and plays an important role in regulating the issuance pricing and placement behaviors as well as preventing interest transport in the primary market of corporate bonds.

Notice of Amendments of Articles Concerning Trading Participants in the Trading Rule of Shenzhen Stock Exchange
date: 2016-10-10
Dear Market Participants, In order to support implementation of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect Program, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (hereinafter referred to as the Exchange) hereby amends articles regarding trading participants in the Trading Rules of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (2016). Detailed revisions are as follows:   First, adjustment of definition of trading participants. 2.2.1 Members and institutions recognized by the Exchange to trade securities through the Exchange shall apply with the Exchange for trading authorization and become trading participant of the Exchange. Trading participants shall conduct securities trading through the trading units established upon their application with the Exchange. Trading participants shall observe these trading rules and the Exchange’s other business rules regarding securities trading.   Second, supplementing provisions on trading participants’ order submissions. Paragraph 3.1.2 has been amended as follows: 3.1.2 Trading participants shall submit buy or sell orders to the Exchange trading system through the order routing system. Orders shall be executed in accordance with these Rules. Trading records are sent to trading participants by the Exchange. Paragraph 3.1.3 has been amended as follows: 3.1.3 Trading participants shall keep under safe custody the records of the investors’ instructions and submission of orders pursuant to relevant regulations. Paragraph 3.3.1 has been amended as follows: 3.3.1 The Exchange’s trading system accepts auction orders routed by trading participants between 9:15-9:25, 9:30-11:30 and13:00-15:00on each trading day. The Exchange’s trading system will not accept cancellation of any auction orders between 9:20-9:25 and 14:57-15:00 on each trading day. During other trading hours, unexecuted orders can be cancelled. The Exchange may adjust time frames for accepting orders. Paragraph 3.3.3 has been amended as: 3.3.3 The Exchange accepts limit orders and market orders from trading participants. Paragraph 3.5.6 has been amended as 3.5.6 Clearing and settlement of securities trades shall be conducted pursuant to the regulations of the registration and clearing institution designated by the Exchange. Paragraph 5.2.4 has been amended as: 5.2.4 The real-time quotations are transmitted via the communication system licensed by the Exchange. Trading participants shall use the real-time quotations within the scope of license granted by the Exchange.   Third, supplementing provisions over regulatory matters regarding trading participants. Paragraph 6.6 has been amended as: 6.6 The Exchange may conduct on-site or off-site investigations of the matters that occur in the trading of securities and need to be put under intense monitoring. Members, their brokerage branches, other trading participants and investors shall coordinate with the Exchange in the latter’s investigations. Paragraph 6.7 has been amended as: 6.7 During on-site or off-site investigations, the Exchange may require the relevant members, their brokerage branches, other trading participants and investors to provide the following documents and information timely, accurately and completely as it deems necessary: (1) Investors’ account opening information, letter of authorization, capital account information, as well as the transaction information with respect of the relevant securities accounts; (2) Information on the de facto controller or operator of the relevant securities accounts or capital accounts, source of funds and an explanation on whether the relevant accounts are associated; (3) Explanations on the matters that are put under intense monitoring during securities trading; and (4) Other information related to the matters under intense monitoring of the Exchange. Paragraph 8.1 has been amended as: 8.1 In case that trading disputes arise between trading participants, between members and their clients, relevant members and other trading participants shall record particulars of the disputes for the Exchange’s inspection. In case that the trading disputes affect normal trading, the members shall report to the Exchange in a timely manner. Paragraph 8.2 has been amended as: 8.2 When disputes arise between trading participants, between members or between members and their clients, the Exchange may provide necessary trading data pursuant to relevant regulations. Paragraph 9.2 has been amended as: 9.2 Trading participants shall pay handling fees and other relevant charges pursuant to applicable regulations. In addition, members shall pay membership management fees to the Exchange pursuant to applicable regulations. Paragraph 10.1 has been amended as: 10.1 Where a member violates these Rules, the Exchange will impose disciplinary sanctions on the trading participant in accordance with the Membership Management Rules of Shenzhen Stock Exchange. These rules take effect on day of promulgation. Trading Rules of Shenzhen Stock Exchange revised 2016 shall be amended according this notice and re-released.   Trading Rules of Shenzhen Stock Exchange

SZSE Promulgated the Information Disclosure Guidelines for Internet Marketing Companies Listed in ChiNext Board to Constantly Deepen Industry Supervision
date: 2016-9-20
Since January 2013, in order to increase the effectiveness of information disclosure of listed companies and improve the market transparency, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (‘SZSE’) has promulgated a series of information disclosure guidelines for industries like radio film and television, bio-pharmaceuticals, photovoltaics, energy conservation and environmental protection, internet game, internet video and internet e-commerce, forming industrial information disclosure rules and supervision systems with the characteristics of ChiNext board. In order to further regulate the information disclosure for internet marketing companies listed in ChiNext board, SZSE recently promulgated the Information Disclosure Guidelines for Internet Marketing Companies Listed in ChiNext Board.   In recent years, internet marketing business has gradually become development direction of marketing industry, internet marketing companies show unique industrial characteristics in terms of business mode and profit pattern. There are no unified and fair evaluation indicators for internet marketing business due to short industrial history, and the existing information disclosure rules are not perfect, so internet marketing companies couldn’t have enough disclosure in business indicators, and investors have difficulty in carrying out effective comparative analysis to companies of the industry. Now there are eight ChiNext board listed companies engaging in internet marketing business, in order to promote such listed companies to better perform their information disclosure obligations and improve their transparency of information disclosure as well as facilitate investors to understand their business situation, SZSE formulated the Guidelines by fully learning from the information disclosure experience of internet marketing companies at home and abroad after summarizing the common characteristics of internet marketing companies.   The Guidelines has the following characteristics: Firstly, it clearly defines the applicable scope, i.e. listed companies engaging in internet business like search engine marketing, integral wall marketing, programmatic buying and marketing data services are applicable to the Guidelines; Secondly, it clearly requires such listed companies to disclose in their annual and semi-annual reports about their data or flow conditions, such as the proportion of self-owned and imported data or flow from a third party, the number of users of mobile end and PC end and the average daily number of active users. Thirdly, it requires such listed companies to disclose in their annual and semi-annual reports about technical indicators under different standards (such as conversion rate, click rate and display rate), such as quotes per second, deals per second, average daily number of web scraping and average daily number of keywords display; Fourthly, it requires such listed companies to disclose the transaction amount on their main cooperation platforms (such as demand side platform, supply side platform and advertisement exchange platform) in consideration of great influence on them by the transactions on platforms; Fifthly, it requires such listed companies to disclose in their annual and semi-annual reports about revenue and purchase amount according to different dimensions in consideration of great influence on them by customer and media resources; Sixthly, it requires such listed companies to perform the obligations for disclosing interim reports in case of major changes in customer and media resources during daily operation; During the drafting process of the Guidelines, SZSE adheres to promote the formulation of the Guidelines with market orientation. After the completion of the first draft, SZSE invites many industrial analysts from securities companies to participate in the formulation of the Guidelines, meanwhile, it seeks advice from related listed companies for many times and discusses, amends and replies to such opinions one by one. Besides, SZSE sends out questionnaires to more than 3000 investors, which makes the Guidelines more close to the actual situation of listed companies and meet the needs of investors.   ChiNext board listed companies have obvious characteristics of emerging industry, SZSE will continue to start from ChiNext board to study the industrial characteristics and summarize supervision experience, and constantly improve the effectiveness and pertinence of information disclosure through steady promotion of industrial supervision, so as to provide better services for investors.

SZSE Signed a Strategic Cooperation Agreement with Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region
date: 2016-9-19
On September 12, 2016, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (‘SZSE’) signed a strategic cooperation agreement with Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region in Hohhot, both parties reported their own recent development situation and exchanged ideas extensively on strengthening cooperation next. Mr. Yun Guangzhong, the Vice Governor and Member of the Standing Committee of the CPC Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, and Mr. Wang Jianjun, the General Manager of SZSE, signed the agreement on behalf of both parties respectively.   Mr. Yun Guangzhong firstly introduced Inner Mongolia's economic and social development situation at present and development plan in the next step. Inner Mongolia has distinctive natural and regional conditions and distinguished social and economic development feature, it has urge demand for capital market and would like to further deepen cooperation with SZSE, so as to better use capital market instruments to promote the supply-side structural reform and economic and social development in the region.   Mr. Wang Jianjun said, SZSE has attached great importance to Inner Mongolia market cultivation service work with frequent top-level exchanges and productive cooperation in various areas, and he congratulated to Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region on its major development achievements in recent years. SZSE has complete equity market and rich kinds of bond and asset securitization products, which offer a good foundation for serving the real economy in the region. SZSE will take the opportunity of the strategic agreement signed at this time to further provide distinctive and targeted service.   According to the agreement, both parties will jointly explore the new economic and social development mode of capital market serving ethnic minority regions and border areas, so as to jointly promote the regional capital market development and strive to create the “Inner Mongolia mode” of SZSE serving Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region. Firstly, they will carry out overall research and analysis on the capital market development of the region to form an overall scheme for supporting the capital market development of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region by SZSE. Secondly, they will select enterprises enjoying special state aid according to the industrial features of each league city, and deepen the cultivation service via various methods. Thirdly, they will establish fixed income products base, and support and encourage the issuance of green bonds according to the main green industry features, such as clean energy, ecological protection and restoration in Inner Mongolia. Fourthly, they will strengthen intelligent support force, increase training frequency, jointly carry out special research on capital market development, and giving priority to arranging cadre attachment. Fifthly, they will strengthen the supporting force of ecological improvement of the region, and continue to support Alxa ecological foundation to become bigger and stronger. Sixthly, they will actively explore new ways of financial support, and strive to establish a point-to area, multi-level and distinctive financial support system.

SZSE Solicits Opinions from the Public on the Guidelines for Structured Fund Business Management (Exposure Draft)
date: 2016-9-13
In order to regulate the eligibility management of investors in structured fund market and actually protect investors’ legal rights and interest, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (‘SZSE’) recently promulgated the Guidelines of SZSE for Structured Fund Business Management (Exposure Draft) (hereinafter referred to as ‘The Guidelines’) and solicited opinions from the public. According to the philosophy of “partial obligations undertaken by the seller and total risk born by the buyer”, The Guidelines clearly defines the eligibility arrangement for investors in structured fund secondary market, such as related requirements for investors to sign the Risk Revealment Statement for Investment in Structured Fund, and risk warning arrangement for fund managers and securities companies.   Related official of SZSE said, The Guidelines mainly includes the following aspects: firstly, it improves the investors eligibility system and strengthens investors access management and risk revealment for investors. It learns from the experience and practice of eligibility management of investors investing in future, securities margin trading and other high-risk financial products or business, sets up the investment threshold of securities assets of CNY300,000, and requires individual investors and common institutional investors to pass the comprehensive evaluation and sign the Risk Revealment Statement for Investment in Structured Fund before opening structured fund transactions and relevant permissions. Investors who don’t meet the above investors eligibility conditions still can independently choose to continue to hold or sell or combine to redeem their structure fund units. Secondly, it strengthens the risk warning measures and enhances the pertinence and effectiveness of risk warning for investors. Integrated with the operation and management experience of reverse split of structured fund, it requires structured fund B units occurring reverse split to add ‘star’ to the fund abbreviation on the split base date, requires fund managers to issue risk warning announcement for structured fund with high premium in B units that may occur or has occurred reverse split, requires such B units to add trading suspension for one hour on the split base date, and requires members to timely deliver risk warning information to investors according to relevant requirements of SZSE. Thirdly, it improves investor education system and promotes fund managers and members to perform the responsibilities for investor education. It requires fund managers and members to fully reveal the investment risk of structured fund and strengthen investor service as well as properly solve relevant disputes. Fourthly, it clearly defines investors’ responsibilities and obligations to enhance their risk awareness. It requires investors to follow the principle of ‘total risk born by the buyer’, cooperate with members to provide related proof materials for eligibility management of investors and undertake the responsibility for the accuracy, authenticity and legitimacy. Besides, according to the current operation and management mechanism for structured fund, The Guidelines further defines the procedures for structured fund split business to facilitate investors to accurately understand the split mechanism for structured fund.   The official also said, in order to ensure full preparation of relevant departments and normal market trade, The Guidelines will leave a certain transitional period from its promulgation to formal implementation. Meanwhile, in order to facilitate all market participators to better understand The Guidelines, SZSE simultaneously drafts and promulgates relevant Q&A for everyone’s reference.   The opinions for The Guidelines will be solicited until October 9, 2016. SZSE will timely perfect it according to the opinions from the public.

Notice of solicitation for public opinions on the relevant rules of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect business (Exposure Draft)
date: 2016-9-8
Market participants: In order to regulate the Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect business, protect investors’ legitimate rights and interests and prevent operational risk, on the basis of the Joint Announcement of the CSRC and the SFC published on August 16, 2016, and the Certain Provisions on Interconnection between the Mainland and Hong Kong Stock Markets, Shenzhen Stock Exchange drafted the Measures of Shenzhen Stock Exchange for the Implementation of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect Program (Exposure Draft) and the Guidelines of Shenzhen Stock Exchange on the Management of Investor Suitability for Hong Kong Connect (Exposure Draft), and now solicits opinions from the public. Please feedback relevant comments or suggestions via email to sgt@szse.cn by September 9, 2016.     Shenzhen Stock Exchange            August 26, 2016                Measures of Shenzhen Stock Exchange for the Implementation of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect Program (Exposure Draft).   Guidelines of Shenzhen Stock Exchange on the Management of Investor Suitability for Hong Kong Connect (Exposure Draft).

Notice of solicitation for public opinions on the Mandatory Provisions for the Risk Disclosure Statement for Hong Kong Connect Trading (Exposure Draft)
date: 2016-9-8
Market participants: In order to regulate securities companies’ business conduct of the Hong Kong Connect under the Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect Program and fully inform investors major trading risks of the Hong Kong Connect, Shenzhen Stock Exchange and China Securities Depository and Clearing jointly drafted the Mandatory Provisions for the Risk Disclosure Statement for Hong Kong Connect Trading (Exposure Draft), and now solicit opinions from the public. Please feedback relevant comments or suggestions via email to sgt@szse.cn by September 9, 2016.   Shenzhen Stock Exchange August 26, 2016   Mandatory Provisions for the Risk Disclosure Statement for Hong Kong Connect Trading (Exposure Draft).

The Performance of Companies Listed on Shenzhen Markets Realize Innovation-Driven Development and Steady Growth
date: 2016-9-2
 -- Brief Analysis on 2016 Interim Reports Disclosed by Companies Listed on Shenzhen Markets   As of 31 August, 2016, all of the 1787 companies listed on the Shenzhen markets have disclosed their 2016 interim reports. For the first half of 2016, these companies have made an aggregate operating income of CNY3.476218 trillion and an aggregate net profit of CNY244.051 billion (i.e. an average operating income of CNY1.945 billion and an average net profit of CNY137 million), a year-on-year growth of 8.58% and 5.79% respectively. From the point of operating income, 65.47% companies have realized a year-on-year growth and 77% companies have realized a quarter-on-quarter growth. From the point of net profit, 62.95% companies have realized a year-on-year growth and 61.72% companies have realized a quarter-on-quarter growth. With our economy entering into the important period of transformation and upgrading and facing the complex economic environment at home and abroad, the performance of companies listed on the Shenzhen markets shows a steady increasing trend mainly by industrial upgrading and scientific and technological innovation. From the viewpoint of the entire markets in Shenzhen, there are many significant highlights in the 2016 performance of companies listed on the Shenzhen markets. Firstly, most industries realize better business performance. 11 out of 17 industries are reporting year-on-year growth and 13 are reporting quarter-on-quarter growth. Among them, industries of information technology, real estate, commercial service, medical and healthcare, public facility management and agriculture have made a year-on-year growth rate of over 20% on net profit. Besides, under the background of policy guidance, technical progress and industrial transformation, industries of culture and arts, manufacturing and retail transformed toward ‘Internet +’ have made a year-on-year growth rate of over 10% on net profit. Secondly, emerging industries realize outstanding business performance. There are 679 strategic emerging industries companies listed on Shenzhen markets, accounting for 37.6% of the total companies, realizing the average growth of 15.14% and 17.43% in operating income and net profit for the first half of 2016 respectively. Thirdly, M&A and restructuring promote listed companies to improve performance significantly. There are 252 companies listed on Shenzhen markets completing major assets restructuring in 2015, which realize extended development via M&A, with the average growth of 27.88% and 28.11% in operating income and net profit for the first half of 2016 respectively, outperforming the overall level of the Shenzhen markets. Besides, the companies listed on Shenzhen markets have actively participated in the national ‘One Belt and One Road’ strategy and strengthened foreign cooperation to improve their business performance. Represented by traditional industry leaders and state-owned enterprises, the main board has witnessed stable and slower development. For the reporting period, all the 478 companies listed on the main board have made an aggregate operating income of CNY1.915504 trillion, up 1.84% on the year-on-year basis; and an aggregate net profit of CNY112.601 billion, down 7.98% on the year-on-year basis. The top 10 main board listed companies in net profit have made an aggregate net profit of CNY55 billion, accounting for 48.88% of the aggregate net profit of all main board listed companies. Traditional key industries such as banks and real estate, and consuming industries such as food and beverage and household appliances, have maintained development via innovation, up 3.07% in the average net profit for the first half of 2016. In the first half of 2016, PAB, Vanke-A, Gree, Midea Group, Changan Automobile, GF Securities, Wuliangye and China Merchants Shekou realize outstanding business performance and further consolidate their industrial position, of which China Merchants Shekou realizes a year-on-year growth of over 100% in net profit. SZSE main board listed companies realize transformation and upgrading through capital markets, continuously optimize industrial structure, actively implement supply-side structural reform and gain excellent effects. As the excellent representatives of our small and medium enterprises, SME board listed companies realize continuous performance growth. For the reporting period, 793 companies listed on the SME board have made an aggregate operating income of CNY1.245994 trillion, up 14.87% on the year-on-year basis; and an aggregate net profit of CNY93.467 billion, up 12.70% on the year-on-year basis. And the SME board listed companies excluding financial industry companies have realized the year-on-year growth of 16.48% and 28.66% in operating income and net profit respectively. 617 manufacturing companies listed on SME board adhere to independent innovation and transformation and upgrading, and implement industrial integration and structural optimization, realizing the year-on-year growth of 16.62% and 25.96% in operating income and net profit respectively, of which non-ferrous metal smelting industry represented by lithium ion battery cathode materials and automobile manufacturing industry represented by new energy gain outstanding business performance with the net profit growth of 116.89% and 80.76% respectively. Meanwhile, in the first half of 2016, people's livelihood industries, such as culture, forestry and fishing industry and farm and sideline food processing industry also realize outstanding business performance with the average net profit of CNY172 million and CNY146 million respectively, up 1,138.71% and 122.24% on the year-on-year basis. The ChiNext board listed companies that aim to serving emerging industry and new economy and creating entrepreneurial and innovation market-oriented engine have gained fast growth. 516 companies listed on ChiNext board have made an aggregate operating income of CNY314.204 billion, up 33.09% on the year-on-year basis; and an aggregate net profit of CNY37.983 billion, up 49.48% on the year-on-year basis; which outperforms the average level of the Shenzhen markets. The emerging industries realize fast development, industries of environmental protection, media, computer and communication gain the operating income growth of 37.91%, 70.44%, 31.30% and 34.96% respectively and the net profit growth of 35.69%, 20.13%, 70.04% and 96.57% respectively. Besides, ChiNext listed companies continuously increase the R&D input, make all efforts to promote the innovation and upgrading in technology, products and service. In the first half of 2016, the total amount of R&D input of companies disclosed research and development data is CNY13.653 billion, up 28.48% on the year-on-year basis, and the average R&D intensity (i.e. the ratio of R&D input to operating income) is 4.63%, which outperforms the average level of the Shenzhen markets. So far, 838 Shenzhen listed companies have made performance forecast for the first three quarters in 2016. 444 companies (accounting for 52.98%) are predicting positive and growth, 165 companies of them are predicting a year-on-year growth of over 50%. It is predictable that the performance results of Shenzhen listed companies for the first three quarters are improving steadily.

The Symposium of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect Program was Held in Shenzhen
date: 2016-8-26
Recently, in order to promote the preparatory work for Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect Program (hereinafter referred to as “The Program”), Fang Xinghai, the Vice Chairman of CSRC and concurrently the Leader of Special Work Team for Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect Program of China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”), chaired a symposium of the Program in Shenzhen, at which he listened to the preparatory work progress report and opinions from Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”), Hong Kong Stock Exchange (“HKEx”), China Securities Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd. (“CSDC”) and some securities companies, and carried out deployment for relevant work, so as to ensure the up and running of the Program in the year.   Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect Program has been running smoothly and orderly since its pilot, it has withstood market testing and realized the expected goals, so as to provide valuable experiences and lay a solid foundation for the Program. The preparatory work of market participants for the program has been accelerated since the Joint Announcement promulgated by CSRC and Securities and Futures Commission (“SFC”) on 16 August, 2016. SZSE and other three parties have completed the formulation of main rules, and plan to solicit opinions from the public in the near future. The technical system development and mutual simulation test of SZSE and HKEx have been completed, and all preparatory work has been promoted orderly. Recently, SZSE and CSDC jointly promulgated the notice on start work, required relevant market organizations to participate in it and overall start the preparatory work. Relevant securities companies have established special teams to strengthen organizational guarantee, and they have completed technical development based on Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect Program, so they are expected to complete relevant preparatory work for the Program quickly.   Mr. Fang Hai Xing emphasized that the Program is another important strategic deployment of the Central Party and the State Council for the reforming and opening of capital market, marking that Chinese capital market has taken another solid step towards the internationalization and market-oriented direction, which facilitates to strengthen the cooperation between Mainland China and Hong Kong in a wider extent, higher level and deeper degree and further enhance the international competitiveness and ability for serving entity economy of Chinese capital market, and CSRC’ Party committee has attached great importance to the work. All participants in the symposium said that they would carry out elaborate organization and close cooperation under CSRC’s unified arrangement, so as to ensure the timely completion of preparatory work for the Program and its smooth up and running.

Approval of Shenzhen Hong-Kong Stock Connect
date: 2016-8-19
The China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), Hong Kong Securities & Futures Commission (SFC) issued a joint announcement on 16 August, 2016, approving in principle the establishment of mutual stock market access between Shenzhen and Hong Kong (Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect). The Stock Connect will be launched by Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (SEHK), China Securities Depository & Clearing Company Limited (China Clear), and Hong Kong Securities Clearing Company Limited (HKSCC). It signifies a firm step forward towards legalization, market-orientation and internationalization of the Chinese capital market.   According to a person in charge with SZSE, the joint announcement specifies the scope of eligible shares included in Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect.  The eligible shares are listed on the Main Board, SME Board and ChiNext Market and represent China’s emerging industries, highlighting high-growth market feature and offering expanded investment opportunities for both domestic and overseas investors. The launch of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect is of great significance in SZSE’s reform and opening-up process.. In order to ensure the smooth launch and safe operation of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect, SZSE will make careful preparations, actively carry out lawful, strict and comprehensive supervision, strengthen market surveillance, prevent risks associated with cross-border speculations, crack down on irregularities and violations such as market manipulation, and enhance relevant risks disclosure and promoting investor education.   At present, development and testing of technical systems as well as drafting of major rules has been finished. In the next stage, under the unified coordination of CSRC, SZSE will work closely with SEHK, China Clear and other relevant parties to advance preparation in all fronts including detailed business rules, technical development and testing by market institutions, member brokers’ training to ensure all business and technical preparations are fully in place within the timetable of the joint announcement.

SSIC and Euronext Sign an Index Cooperation Agreement
date: 2016-7-15
Recently, Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. (SSIC) and Euronext signed an Index Cooperation Agreement, signaling that the parties will develop exchange and promotion based on their respective index business and energetically carry out innovative cooperation in the field.   The Agreement states that the parties will full make use of their advantages to develop deeper partnership in various aspects, including cross display of index market, development and promotion of index products, formulation and R&D of cross-border indexes, and personnel exchange.   Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and Euronext entered into a memorandum of understanding in March 2015, and the Agreement is an important move in implementing the parties' intention of cooperation.   Furthermore, conclusion of the Agreement is a crucial step for SSIC in moving forward international index cooperation. As a wholly-owned subordinated company of SZSE, SSIC has been seeking opportunities of developing global index cooperation and trying to enlarging its cooperation and exchange with international financial institutions and overseas bourses, facilitating the international development of China's capital market.   In 2002, SSIC started the specialized management of index business, taking charge of the planning and designing, daily operation and maintenance and marketing of "SZSE" serial indexes. It has launched core indexes for the market, including SZSE Component Index, SZZE 100, SME Index and ChiNext Index, encompassing stocks, bonds, funds, exchange rates and other asset types. As of the end of 2016 Q1, SSIC has tracked 77 funds under such indexes, with the asset scale up to CNY 76.2 billion.   As the first largest platform for listed company transactions and the second largest platform for derivative transactions, Euronext has a standardized market which spans France, the Netherlands, Belgium and Portugal and boasts more than 1,600 issuers, with its market value amounting to about 3,000 billion Euros. In addition, the major indexes of the European market, such as CAC40 and AEX, under its management have been playing key roles in European capital market and financial market.

SZSE Revises Information Disclosure Guidelines for Radio, Film and Television Industry to Strengthen Supervision on Hot Issues of the Industry
date: 2016-7-15
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) promulgated the ChiNext Guidelines on Information Disclosure of Different Sectors No.1 – Engaging of Listed Companies in Radio, Film and Television Business (hereinafter referred to as "Guidelines") in January 2013, and revised it in February 2015. In order to further enhance the transparency of information disclosure of listed companies and strengthen investors’ understanding of listed companies, SZSE has recently completed the revision on the Guidelines by integrating the implementation situation and market development changes.   At present, with the fast development of domestic film-television industry, there are more and more high-box-office works, the way of cooperation in business and equity between listed companies and producer, director and actor is constantly innovated, and securitization of film-television stars has become the market heats. According to current market situation, as the key focus of investors, the box-office of film-television works of listed companies has an important effect on its share price in the secondary market, and the cooperation and bet on performance between listed companies and cast members have a significant impact on operation of listed companies, and the information disclosure requirements for the above matters have been stipulated in the original Guidelines.   Since box office is not necessarily equal to a company's operating revenue, however, if the company does not clearly state the exact influence of high box office on its operating revenue, investors may be misled. Moreover, the cooperation between listed companies and cast members often impact the companies' future operation and financial statements to some extent. In view of these situations, the revision requires listed companies disclose the range of operating revenue generated from high box office, stresses the difference between box office and actual operating revenue recognized by the companies, and asks the companies to give relevant risk warnings. Also, the revision exacts disclosure requirements on the cooperation between listed companies and cast members, including the parties' specific mode of cooperation, authorization matters and exclusive articles. As to matters on the market focus of celebrity securitization, apart from valuation basis and performance commitment, the revision also requires listed companies to offer statements on capital contribution and pricing basis for cast members' becoming of shareholders, compare with other investors' admission price, and explain whether the cast members have made specific cooperation arrangements.   In the process of guiding the revision, SZSE has stuck to moving forward the revision on industrial disclosure guidelines under the market-oriented principle. After soliciting opinions from relevant listed companies, SZSE discussed, revised and replied the feedback one by one and fully considered the balance between listed companies' trade secret protection and investors' information demand. In addition, for revision on the Guidelines, opinions from more than 3,500 investors were solicited. The solicited voices indicate that 83% investors would follow the disclosed box office data, that 76% investors would follow matters on the cooperation between companies and known cast members, and that 86% investors consider industrial information disclosure helpful for their investment decision-making and hope more relevant disclosure guidelines would be launched. The revision on the Guidelines caters to investors' need, which is to the benefit of improving transparency of information disclosure in the film and television industry.   SZSE will continue to take ChiNext as an entry point to study the industrial features and summarize regulatory experience so that it would constantly enhance the efficiency and pertinence of information disclosure to better serve investors.

SZSE to Handle The Delisting of Xin Tai Electric Properly
date: 2016-7-12
Dandong Xintai Electric Co., Ltd., landed on the ChiNext Board of Shenzhen Stock Exchange(SZSE) on January, 2014, had been filed an investigation by China Securities Regulatory Committee(CSRC) on 14 July, 2015. On 8 July, 2016, the Company received from CSRC the letter of Decision on Administrative Penalty, and the letter of Decision on Prohibition of Market Access, according to which Xin Tai Electric and relevant persons will be penalized by CSRC for fraud share offering, and actions against information disclosure laws and regulations.   Related principal from SZSE indicated that as Xin Tai Electric’s fraud share offering and actions of illegitimate information disclosure had triggered the condition for the delisting of public company, SZSE would handle the works of Xin Tai Electric’s delisting properly in accordance with law and regulations. The specific works include: supervise and urge Xin Tai Electric to disclose information strictly in line with regulations provided in Rules of Listing on the ChiNext Board, strenghen the reminder of delisting risk, and decide the company’s listing suspension in accordance with laws and regulations at appropriate time;  SZSE will protect the lawful rights and interest of investors, urge the sponsor to shoulder the intermediaries’ responsibility regarding compensating the eligible investors per the principle of compensation in advance. SZSE will receive the complaint and consultation of investors carefully. In order to handle the risk reminder, during the trading of, the abbreviation of the Xin Tai Electric will be changed to ‘Extra Xin Tai Electric’ during the trading period to remind the risk. In addition, SZSE will watch closely market consensus of the company, and enhance the real time  supervision over the company during trading period.   As the above principal pointed out that fraud share offering had irreversible influences. According to relevant laws and regulations, Xin Tai Electric will not be able to resume the status of listing after the listing suspension, and will not be eligible for listing after the delisting. Xin Tai Electric will be the first company to be delisted on the ChiNext Board, and will be the first company the become delisted for fraudulence in the domestic securities market. In the light of philosophy of supervising and administrating strictly and comprehensively in compliance with law, SZSE will supervise and urge the related parties to perform their obligations, and protect the lawful rights and interest of the investors.

SZSE Promulgated the Work Rules for Listing Committee of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (2016 Revision)
date: 2016-7-12
In order to adapt to the changes of the market situation and ensure the transparency, fairness and justice of audit work for listing of securities, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) recently revised and promulgated the Work Rules for Listing Committee of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (2016 Revision).   Related officer of SZSE said, the revised Work Rules for Listing Committee of Shenzhen Stock Exchange mainly has the four changes as follows:   Firstly, the scope of responsibility of Listing Committee is adjusted and perfected. The execution of the delisting system of listed companies is intensified, the quality and transparency of audit work for listing suspension is enhanced, and the matters regarding listing suspension of listed securities are included into the audit scope of Listing Committee in the revision.   Secondly, the scope of application for stock audit matters is enlarged. Constant innovation is made in the revision by adapting to market financing means, for example, the scope of stock audit matters is enlarged from common stock to preferred stock, and the listing and listing transfer of preferred stock is included into the stock audit scope.   Thirdly, differentiated audit procedures are implemented according to different situation of listing suspension. In the revision, the listing suspension of stocks hitting financial delisting indicators and market trading delisting indicators is applicable to special review procedures of Listing Committee; while the listing suspension of stocks hitting other delisting indicators, such as major illegal delisting indicators including fraudulent issuance and violation of laws in major information disclosure, is applicable to common review procedures of Listing Committee. The listing and listing transfer of preferred stock as well as listing suspension of convertible corporate bonds are applicable to special review procedures of Listing Committee.   Fourthly, the review section for corporate (enterprise) bonds by Listing Committee is cancelled. According to the Management Measures for Issuance and Trading of Corporate Bonds (January 2015), the review for listing, listing resumption and delisting of corporate (enterprise) bonds by Listing Committee is cancelled to simplify the review procedures for bond listing.

SZSE Releases Memo of Media Conference on Major Assets Restructuring
date: 2016-7-4
Recently, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) developed and released the "Memorandum of Media Conference on Major Assets Restructuring", clearly setting forth the circumstance, method and information disclosure of media conferences need holding when a listed company reveals a scheme for major assets restructuring. This is a move taken to fully implement China Securities Regulatory Commission's (CSRC's) regulatory idea of "legal, strict and comprehensive regulation", improve the efficiency and pertinence of major assets restructuring information disclosure, and fully protect investors' right to know and participate.   In recent years, as the merger and acquisition business has been active in the capital market, major assets restructuring has become a key approach for helping listing companies to excel and grow strong and facilitating industrial structure upgrade. However, in the market there have also emerged disputed acts chasing system arbitrage, such as "speculative restructuring", "bamboozling restructuring" and "circumvention back door", seriously impairing the interests of listed companies and investors. The Memorandum clearly says that when a listed company launches a scheme for major assets restructuring that is in compliance with Article 13 of Management Measures on Listing Companies' Major Assets Restructuring (called "Restructuring Listing" for short) or its acts of major assets restructuring are suspected to circumvent the regulatory requirements on Restructuring Listing, the listed company should hold a media conference where all transaction participating parties and relevant intermediary agencies detail the scheme, respond to market attention and questions, and fully accept market supervision. Relevant principal from SZSE explains that the said move will further increase transaction parties and intermediaries' awareness of responsibility in information disclosure, urge market players to be honest and responsible, and boosts regulated development of the market.   In addition, the Memorandum also sets requirements on the conference time, participants, and content in need of explanation and information disclosure and it is implemented from the day of release onward.

Sample Stocks Adjusted in Serial Indexes Including SZSE Component Index, SME Index and ChiNext Index
date: 2016-6-20
Regular sample stock adjustment will be implemented in SZSE serial indexes including SZSE Component Index, SME Index, ChiNext Index and SZSE 100 Index according to index compilation rules, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. (SSIC) announced. SSIC also disclosed that cross-market indexes like Cninfo 100 Index will have sample stocks adjusted regularly too. The adjustment will be officially carried out on the first trading day in July 2016.   In SZSE Component Index, 50 sample stocks will be replaced, with Tianma and Jinsheng Mechanical & Electrical etc. to be replaced by Focus Media and Kunlun Wanwei etc. In SME Index, 10 sample stocks will be adjusted, with ETi and Dunan to be replaced by etc. Tianqi Lithium and Focus Media etc. In ChiNext Index, 7 sample stocks will be changed, with NanFeng Corporation and CTI Testing etc. to be replaced by EVE Energy and Thundersoft etc. In SZSE 100 Index, 10 sample stocks will be adjusted, with Weifu Hi-tech and Xinrong Environment etc. to be replaced by Tianqi Lithium and Shanghai Raas etc. In Cninfo 100 Index, 9 sample stocks will be changed, with Liaoning Chengda and Qingdao Haier etc. to be replaced by Everbright Securities and Western Securities etc.   Among the 50 companies to be introduced in SZSE Component Index, only one company is listed on SZSE main board while 31 and 18 of them are listed on SME board and ChiNext respectively. After the adjustment, the weight ratio of companies listed on SZSE Component Index main board, SME board and ChiNext will be 42:39:19, which is more similar to the actual board distribution of Shenzhen market.   Data indicates that after the adjustment, IT industry keeps being the No. 1 weighted in SZSE Component Index with a ratio of 23% while the No. 2 weighted will be discretionary consumer industry with a ratio of 16%. The adjusted SZSE Component Index structure is more similar to the Shenzhen market structure, highlighting the structural feature of emerging industry dominance. Furthermore, after the adjustment, in ChiNext Index sample stocks, companies of IT industry will increase to 50 in quantities, occupying total index weight of nearly 50% which fully demonstrates the strategic layout of a ChiNext market serving emerging industries and new economy.   Strong growth is still the most prominent feature of Shenzhen market. According to the 2015 annual report data, the 2015 net profit growth rates of the latest sample stocks in SZSE Component Index, SME Index and ChiNext Index are 18.75%, 40.06% and 45.44% respectively. In contrast, CNINDEX A, representing the whole A-share market, has a 2015 net profit growth rate of only 1.22%.

SZSE Strictly Regulates ChiNext "Framework Agreement" Disclosure
date: 2016-6-20
In recent years, as new economy, new business formats and new modes keep springing up, listed companies, based on the needs of development and transformation, are more and more willing to explore new fields through various means including signing framework agreements. According to statistics, ChiNext companies disclosed 415 strategic framework (cooperation) agreements in 2015, an increase of 99% from that in 2014. In the future, as the listed under new economic normal develop and transform, such disclosure would be of larger scale.   Overall, by signing and performing those agreements, listed companies have effectively expanded their room of growth to offer better return to investors. The disclosure, however, reveals the following deficiencies in the framework agreements disclosed by a few listed companies: 1) announcement content caters to the market hotspot and exerts one-sided impact on company stock prices; 2) announcement content is general and delivers more positive statement but fewer risk warnings; and 3) some announcements contain no material content and just abet short-term speculation.   To further intensify front-line regulatory effort, improve market transparency and protect investors' legitimate interests, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) issued the Announcement Format for Signing Strategic Framework (Cooperation) Agreement by ChiNext Listed Companies ("Framework Agreement Format" for short) to fully regulate the information disclosure of interest, specifically adding the following disclosure requirements:   To strengthen the disclosure of agreement performance risk. This mainly manifests in three aspects: first, companies should make adequate risk announcement if the key terms are not certain, such as performance schedule, cooperation scale or amount, parties' rights and interests, distribution plan and default liabilities. Second, if the coming-into-force conditions or performance conditions are not yet ready, companies should offer special reminder and disclose the preceding procedures for coming-into-force or performance, e.g., the procedures of review and decision-making, approval or putting on records. Third, if the agreements involve new business, new technologies, new modes, new products or other matters of high market attention, companies should disclose the feasibility demonstration of relevant matters and the present stage. In addition, risk warnings contain the source of agreed investment amount, the risk of payment capability, the risk of share lessening by majority shareholders and other content.   To disclose the agreement influence on the current-year performance and operation. Previous disclosure indicates that some listed companies have bypassed the risk and uncertainty of framework agreements and used statements of publicity nature to enhance investors' expectations and mislead them to believe the agreements would have major impact on the current-year company performance. Therefore, the Framework Agreement Format requires that listed companies, when disclosing such agreement influence on the company, should clearly state the impact on the annual performance and operation of the current year and subsequent years and be specific on such impact as possible to let investors set clear expectations.   To review implementation results of previous framework agreements. Framework agreements feature great uncertainty and free of mandatory constraint on parties to contract. In order to protect investors' right to know, the Framework Agreement Format requests statements on the progress as of present of the framework agreements disclosed in recent three years and special revelation of circumstances having no subsequent development or failing the expectations.   To keep disclosing the agreement development. In order to prevent some companies from chasing market hotspots via framework agreement disclosure, the Framework Agreement Format sets that after the disclosure, listed companies should exert discretion in judging the progress or major changes of relevant matters and disclose important development in the form of interim reports and agreement performance progress in periodic reports.   Responsible officers of SZSE reminds investors that a few framework agreements do lack of material content and mandatory constraint and that subsequent progress is uncertain; therefore, investors should fully understand the risk of investment, avoid bandwagon or speculation, and make rational investment. SZSE will strictly regulate in accordance with law and press ChiNext companies to improve the information disclosure quality of framework agreements to protect investors' legitimate interests.

Six Issues to be Focused on By SZSE in Annual Report Auditing
date: 2016-6-7
This year, SZSE is stepping up efforts in regulation and supervision, and has expanded the scope of disclosure of the letters of inquiry regarding annual reports so as to increase the publicity of the disclosed information and the transparency of the regulatory work. Up to 3rd June, SZSE has publicized in its official webpage 152 letters of enquiry regarding annual reports. During the subsequent examination of annual reports of listed companies, SZSE attached significant emphasis to 6 issues including the authenticity of corporate performance, compliance of accounting and information disclosure, fund occupation, operation of the board, the supervisory committee and the shareholders' meeting, and fulfillment of performance commitments of underlying assets.   Focus 1: authenticity of corporate performance SZSE will pay attention to whether listed companies have made any prior recognition of costs or asset impairment to give a big bath to their financial statements, whether the sales amount from important clients are genuine, whether there is any profit adjustment via non-recurring profits and losses, or profit increase from asset inventory surplus and etc. In the event that sales revenue from the company’s 5 biggest clients, especially from the biggest client, has increased dramatically year on year, while the Public System of Business Credit and Company Information revealed that the asset scale and revenue of the certain clients fall way short of the amount of purchase from the listed company, SZSE shall send a letter to the listed company enquiring about the discrepancy between the sales amount to and the scale of operation of the client.   Focus 2: compliance of accounting treatment Special attention shall be paid to the aspects including the reasonability of accounting policies and changes to accounting estimates, the compliance of revenue recognition, prudence in recognition of nom-recurring profits and losses, the basis for judgment of asset sales date, and the appropriateness of special auditing opinions. In case a company changed the bad debt provision ratio for accounts receivable and the changes turn the company from deficits to profit, while the annual auditor had thus issued an unreserved opinion with emphasis in this regard, SZSE shall send an enquiry letter to the listed company requesting explanation on the reasonability of the changes made by the company and the basis for the bad debts provision for accounts receivable. For companies which made a reverse to large bad debt provision or accrued liabilities, SZSE shall send a letter of enquiry requesting elaboration on the basis for the accounting treatment of relevant reverse of profits.   Focus 3: timelessness, accuracy and completeness of the information disclosed The major focus will be made on whether failures to timely disclose the discrepancy between operation performance and estimated performance as well as the replacement of temporary notices with periodic notices and etc. For companies who, failing to comply with relevant rules for disclosing annual reports or the guidelines for disclosure of industrial information, did not disclose or only disclose minimal information concerning its primary businesses, the general situation of the industry or the company’s standing in the industry, SZSE shall send a letter requesting such information. As regards assets sales or financial assistance during reporting period which satisfy the conditions for making a temporary notice and which were not disclosed timely but only revealed in the annual report, SZSE shall issue a letter of regulation, and relevant punishment proceeding shall be initiated where a serious violation occurs.   Focus 4: occupation of non-operational capital Special attention shall be paid to the occupation of non-operational capital and the failure to comply with necessary review procedure where transactions are concerned. In case of occupation of non-operational capital by major shareholders or their related parties, SZSE shall issue risk warning on the company in accordance with relevant laws and regulations, and initiate the punishment proceedings for violation. In case of sale of equity of subsidiaries to major shareholders or their related parties during reporting period, SZSE shall verify whether the company have withdrawn the financial assistance and whether the major shareholders or their related parties have made the payment according to the agreement and shall discern whether there is any occupation of non-operational fund uncovered.   Focus 5: the operation of the board, the supervisory committee and the shareholders’ meeting, and internal control of the company Focus will be on the operation of the board, the supervisory committee and the shareholders’ meeting and the internal control auditing. SZSE shall issue a letter requesting explanation on the fight for the control of the company, the compliance, effectiveness of the operation of the board, the supervisory committee and the shareholders’ meeting, the reasons and risks for vetoing the proposals during the reporting period and whether there is any clauses restricting the voting right and proposal right of the shareholders. SZSE shall also order the company to revise the clauses which impair the legitimate rights of the shareholders. In the event of increase of modified audit opinions on the annual report of the listed company over the last year, special attention shall be paid to the replacement of corporate account with personal account, connected transactions where there is a unidentified party, failure of management decision-making on major project investment, and alleged violations of securities laws and regulations which have been reported and investigated by the China Securities Regulatory Commission.   Focus 6: fulfillment of performance commitment on underlying assets The fulfillment of relevant performance commitment in major asset restructuring is a hot spot of market focus and a key point in SZSE annual report audit. On the one hand, to the listed companies whose performance commitment falls short of standards, SZSE pays focused attention and urges the companies and relevant parties to fulfill their performance compensation commitment on time. On the other hand, for companies having fulfilled their performance commitment, SZSE pays focused attention to the authenticity of underlying assets performance from their customer change, conditions of abnormal gross profit rate and auditing institution change before and after restructuring. Relevant principals in SZSE expressed that timely specific measures have been taken to address issues found in annual report audit and that SZSE would urge listed companies to make up the disclosure of major information and fully announce risks. Regarding foul plays, such as illegal fund appropriation, major accounting mistake correction, failure of performing review procedures in major transactions and failure of disclosing connected transactions, SZSE will amplify the supervisory efforts and adopt in time disciplinary punishment and regulatory measures to protect investors' interests. For any found clues of violating laws and regulations, relevant parties are advised to assist in investigation and report such violation to competent departments.   

SZSE New Generation Trading System Goes On Line
date: 2016-6-7
June 6, 2016 marks the first trading day of the official commissioning of Shenzhen Stock Exchange's (SZSE) new generation trading system which went through four-week trial run. To this, SZSE held a brief commissioning ceremony where more than 100 principals from China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), Guangdong Government, Shenzhen Municipal Government and industrial representatives of securities and futures witnessed the great moment.   At the commissioning ceremony, Jiang Yang, vice chairman of CSRC, said that strengthening the infrastructure construction of capital market is of great significance to improve market operation efficiency, lower trading cost, support the reform and innovation and opening-up of capital market, protect mass investors' legal interests and safeguard national financial security. CSRC has been taking industrial informatization and information security as the top priority for safeguarding stable market development. Specifically, CSRC has issued an overall plan for the informatization construction and information security of capital market and launched a series of relevant policies and regulations, which have driven the development of industrial informatization and improved the emergency mechanism of information security. Also, CSRC has performed information system check, effectively regulating the security operation and maintenance and risk management of industrial institutions. Through hardships and difficulties, SZSE progressed to higher levels and independently developed a world-class new generation trading system. Official commissioning of the system marks a key milestone in the information construction of China's capital market and an essential move of practicing national independent innovation strategy in capital market information system. SZSE will stick to the idea of strict operation and maintenance and unbreakable baseline and strongly build risk awareness to grasp the law of system operation, build sound risk control systems and fortify risk management, thus ensuring seamless and smooth transition between oldspider and new systems and holding up to the baseline of "trading uninterrupted and data in order."   Vice Governor Lan Fo'an of Guangdong Province, expressed that launching of the new generation trading system is a big event in the process of China's capital market informatization construction and also a pioneering undertaking for driving the construction of a strong financial province of Guangdong. As a basic technical platform, the new generation trading system has been up to the level of world-class trading systems. Southern Information Technology Center, as the largest data center in securities and futures industries, can not only offer quality technical support to financial businesses and products, but amplify the attraction and radiation force of regional financial resources. And it will lay solid foundation for multi-layer, multi-variety and cross-market trading.   Deputy Mayor Xu Anliang of Shenzhen Municipality believed that launching of the new generation trading system and the commissioning of Southern Information Technology Center are milestone events in Shenzhen finance and will further improve SZSE's core competitiveness, having profound significance to the development of China's securities market. Shenzhen Municipal Party Committee and Municipal Government will continue to create a favorable environment and provide quality service to fully support the layered capital market development of SZSE.   SZSE General Manager Wang Jianjun remarked that SZSE sticks to independent development of important systems and implements the technical route of "technology first, controllable independence, resource integration and ongoing optimization." Accordingly, it has grasped the design and maintenance technologies of world-class advanced trading systems and formed strong independent innovation ability and secure and efficient operation capacity, which will be strong technical guarantee for a layered capital market system.   The new generation trading system is SZSE's brand new product of four-year independent R&D and the fifth-generation trading system that is researched and developed specifically according to China's securities market trading environment and taking into account the new trend of technical development in international securities market. Compared with the original trading system, this 5th generation is safer, more efficient, fairer, more convenient, more flexible and more economical. Its launching will further strengthen the infrastructure construction of our capital market and improve the technical support ability for innovative development of future businesses, therefore elevating the core competitiveness of China's securities market.   It is reported that in business this new generation could deliver integrated trading of spot goods and derivatives and features diversified market service functions encompassing domestic and overseas mainstream trading models like bidding transaction and protocol transaction. In addition, the new system also supports diverse market access modes, such as access through international standard protocols, private protocols and trading clients. Moreover, the new product is embedded with multiple technical reformations. For example, it constructs a distributed large-scale parallel processing architecture based on high-speed message bus to deliver the application architecture deployment of dual-active data centers of local hot backup and access. It develops key technologies including highly available message bus, low time delay technology, multilevel pipeline processing based on high-speed lock-free queues, template-based protocol conversion engine, simultaneous arrival of first orders. And it introduces industrial mainstream open platform and open source technologies so that trading hosts may adopt domestic servers. All these reformations not only further intensify the system's security reliability, but also greatly improve system processing performance, as well as system flexibility, expandability and economics. Currently, the new system is capable of continually processing 300,000 orders per second, which is three times of the original speed, and its average order processing time delay is about 1.1 milliseconds, which is only 1% of that of the original system. Furthermore, its five-year ownership cost lowers to 1/3 of that of the original system. All these signify that China's securities trading has entered a new era of "high-speed railway" and the comprehensive competence is up to world-class level.   On the same day, Southern Information Technology Center of China Securities and Futures which is constructed by SZSE was also officially commissioned. Being the largest and highest-spec southern center in the industry, its data center was constructed in accordance with international T3+ and T4+ class standards. In the first phase, it will launch 5,000 hosting cabinets to the industry, which can fully meet the hosting demands of the industry. Commissioning of the Southern Center is SZSE's key move in implementing CSRC's aims stated in Overall Plan for Informatization Construction of Capital Market (2014-2020) as "stepping up industrial infrastructure construction, further optimizing industrial resource allocation and improving market operation efficiency." Together with the fifth generation trading system, the Southern Center will provide strong support for the healthy development of China securities market.

SZSE Holds Training for Controlling Shareholders and De Facto Controllers of SME Board Companies
date: 2016-6-6
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) recently held in Shenzhen the 2016 training for controlling shareholders and de facto controllers of SME board companies to improve their awareness of standard operation and propel the companies to be better performers. Conducted in the modes of real-time remote live and on-site training, it had over 900 participants including the controlling shareholders, de facto controllers, chairmen and senior management of nearly 500 SME board companies. Among them, more than 400 people were from newly listed companies and SME board enterprises that have their de facto controllers and chairmen changed in recent two years.   The training was with clear focuses: the recent conducts of illegal appropriation of company funds and lessening of shares by the controlling shareholders and de facto controllers of a few listed companies and the phenomenon of blind cross-border mergers in hot industries, high performance commitment in M&A and reorganization objects and forming of large-amount goodwill, and difficult fulfillment of commitment in M&A and reorganization performance of a few companies. To addressing these issues, the training combined rule interpretation and case study to urge the controlling shareholders and de facto controllers to elevate their awareness of standard operation so as to keep at bay the illegal acts of fund appropriation, insider transactions, false information disclosure and violation of commitment.   Principal of SZSE SME board indicated that in the past 12 years of establishment, SME board has become an efficient financing platform for boosting the growth of SMEs and an important channel for optimizing industry structure and resource allocation. Since its inception, SME board has been upholding the philosophy of strict regulation. After 12-year effort and innovation, it has accumulated rich experience in creditability construction, raised fund management, major shareholder supervision and M&A regulation and built a set of regulatory systems fit for SMEs. In the future, SZME will continue the philosophy of strict regulation to build a "board of creditability", to truly protect the rights and interests of small and medium investors. In addition, SZSE will endeavor to offer quality training and service to listed companies' controlling shareholders and de facto controllers, as well as other market players to guide them in standard operation and move forward the sound and stable development of layered capital market.

SZSE Held One-on-One Road Show for Chinese and Korean Innovative Companies
date: 2016-5-31
On 24 May, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and Korea Exchange (KRX) held one-on-one roadshow for Chinese and Korean innovative companies in Shenzhen Stock Exchange. More than 100 Chinese representatives from Chinese listed companies, funds and securities companies participated in this event, and had 55 one-on-one meetings with seven KOSDAQ-listed companies from innovative industries such as entertainment, film/video, online games, cosmetics, and biomedicine. Four of the Korean companies also conducted online and offline interactive road shows with Chinese investors via the High-Tech Zone Platform supported by CNINFO, the subsidiary of the SZSE.   In recent years, the SZSE has been committed to improving the capital market services for innovative companies and start-ups. This event aimed at helping SZSE-listed companies to go global, facilitating business interactions of Chinese and Korean innovative companies, and optimizing cross-border allocation of capital resources. The SZSE will continue to enhance cooperation with overseas stock exchanges and financial institutions, optimize cross-border allocation of capital resources, and guide the innovative Chinese enterprises to integrate into the global industrial chains and innovative chains.

Shenzhen Stock Exchange Publishes Memorandum on Trading Suspension and Resumption for Listed Companies
date: 2016-5-27
  ----Setting standards for trading suspension and resumption of shares of listed companies and actively safeguarding investors’ legitimate rights and interests   Shenzhen Stock Exchange has recently released Memorandum on Trading Suspension and Resumption for Listed Companies (the Memorandum) which is formulated on the basis of regulatory practices and in response to recent emerging market situations. The Memorandum aims to further regulate trading suspension and resumption of shares of listed companies, maintain market efficiency and safeguard the right to trade, the right to know and other legitimate rights and interests of investors.   According to a person in charge from Shenzhen Stock Exchange, the Memorandum clarifies the responsibilities and obligations of listed companies in safeguarding investors’ rights to trade and to know, adhering to the principle focusing on information disclosure, proper alignment of authority and accountability and enhanced supervision. The Memorandum requires that listed companies keep information confidential and conduct phased information disclosure in order to maintain trading continuity. Listed companies in question are also required to make prudent judgment on the duration of proposed trading suspensions. Given the situation in practice where a listed company may have difficulties in conducting phased information disclosure in a timely manner, thus necessitating an application for trading suspension, the Memorandum requires that the company take effective measures to prevent extended suspension and abuses that infringe on investors' rights to trade and to know. If listed companies abuse trading suspension or unreasonably extend suspension duration in violation of this Memorandum, the Exchange shall notify the market of the relevant situation through public announcements or other means and resume trading of the shares of the companies in question. Against listed companies that abuse trading suspensions, disclose false, inaccurate or incomplete information or violate relevant public commitments, the Exchange may take regulatory measures or disciplinary actions. Serious cases will be submitted to China Securities Regulatory Commission and its local offices for investigation in a timely manner.   The Memorandum sets standards for the business of trading suspension and resumption and enhances regulation in this regard in the following five aspects: clarifying the maximum duration of suspension pending on major events, enhancing investors’ supervision on long-term suspensions, refining requirements for information disclosure on suspension and resumption, strengthening restraints on suspension and enhancing the role of intermediaries. For instance, the Memorandum provides that the duration of suspension shall not exceed 10 trading days for such events as purchases or sales of assets, external investment, planned transfer of controlling right by related parties, and non-public equity offering not intended to fund major asset purchases. Duration of suspension shall not exceed one month for fund raising for major asset purchase through non-public equity offer. Duration of suspension shall not exceed three months for major asset restructuring. If the duration of suspension is expected to exceed three months, a shareholders’ general meeting shall be convened to review the proposal for suspension to continue. For companies whose shares are in long-term suspension, intermediaries such as sponsor agencies and financial advisory institutions shall verify the progress of early-stage planning and issue professional opinions.   In the development process of the Memorandum, Shenzhen Stock Exchange conducted two rounds of public consultation with its listed companies, of which 133 provided feedback. Shenzhen Stock Exchange had thorough deliberation on the feedback and made revisions by fully absorbing sound suggestions. The introduction of the Memorandum is a result of active engagement by market participants, full absorption of investors’ opinions and joint research in cooperation with listed companies. It is also an important measure of Shenzhen Stock Exchange to stabilize, repair and develop the market. It is reported that 162 listed companies in long-term share suspension submitted, according to the Memorandum, to shareholders’ general meetings proposals for deliberation on continuation of shares suspension, specifying content of the related plans, expected date of trading resumption and further plans. Two companies have terminated plans on projects causing trading suspension and resumed trading smoothly after shareholders’ general meetings rejected motions in question.   According to the person in charge from Shenzhen Stock Exchange the Memorandum will take effect on the date of release. Shenzhen Stock Exchange will continue to condense best regulatory practices and improve regulatory effectiveness. Shenzhen Stock Exchange will also hold pertinent training programs to help listed companies better understand and implement relevant rules. Shenzhen Stock Exchange will exert its full effort in earnestly maintaining efficient market transactions, safeguarding investors’ rights to know and to trade, and promoting the quality of information disclosure and compliance of listed companies.                                                    

Shenzhen Stock Exchange signs MOU with The Hong Kong Institute of Chartered Secretaries
date: 2016-4-13
The Hong Kong Institute of Chartered Secretaries (HKICS) and Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) in Shenzhen. Mr. Jin Liyang, Vice President of SZSE and Mr. Ivan Tam FCS FCIS, President of HKICS attended the signing ceremony.   Sound communication and cooperation between SZSE and HKICS go back a long way. As early as 1997, HKICS and SZSE co-organized the first professional training for board secretaries of listed companies in China’s mainland. With accelerated international development in innovative enterprises and SMEs and further opening-up of capital market, Chinese listed companies find it urgent to better utilize markets and resources at home and overseas. In the framework of the MOU, SZSE and HKICS will deepen the strategic partnership, jointly promote professional development of board secretaries, and further enhance corporate governance and operational compliance by listed companies in both mainland and Hong Kong.   According to the MOU, both parties agree to develop long-term cooperation, especially in such fields as research, training, professional communication and resource sharing. In particular, efforts will be made to develop joint research on corporate governance of onshore and offshore listed companies, promote best corporate governance practices of onshore and offshore companies, hold seminars and develop hands-on courses for board secretaries in the mainland and Hong Kong.   About HKICS The Hong Kong Institute of Chartered Secretaries (HKICS) is an independent professional body dedicated to the promotion of its members’ role in the formulation and effective implementation of good governance policies as well as the development of the profession of Chartered Secretary in Hong Kong and throughout Mainland China. HKICS was first established in 1949 as an association of Hong Kong members of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators (ICSA) of London. It became a branch of ICSA in 1990 before gaining local status in 1994. HKICS is a founder member of Corporate Secretaries International Association (CSIA) which was established in March 2010 in Geneva, Switzerland to give a global voice to corporate secretaries and governance professionals. HKICS today has over 5,800 members and 3,200 students.   About SZSE: Shenzhen Stock Exchange was established in 1990. Over the past 25 years, Shenzhen Stock Exchange has developed a multi-tiered capital market system comprising of the mainboard, the SME Board and the ChiNext Market. As of 31st December 2015, SZSE had 1746 listed companies with 23.61 trillion yuan (USD 3.64 trillion) in market capitalization and recorded 122.50 trillion yuan (USD 18.87 trillion) in total turnover.

Shenzhen Stock Exchange Conducting All-round Strategic Cooperation with China Merchants Group to Facilitate Economic Restructuring and Upgrading
date: 2016-4-12
On 11 April, 2016 Shenzhen Stock Exchange signed a strategic cooperation agreement in Shenzhen with China Merchants Group. Chairman Wu Lijun and general manager Wang Jianjun of Shenzhen Stock Exchange, and chairman of the board Li Jianhong and general manager Li Xiaopeng of China Merchants Group attended the contract signing ceremony.   According to the agreement, collaboration shall be carried out in several fields. First, both sides shall develop and launch financial products and services in line with the national strategy, “the Belt and Road Initiative”. Second, both sides shall cultivate and support the technological SMEs, and try to explore a new model for financial-industrial integration. Third, both parties shall further develop the fixed-income market and increase the financing instruments by making use of the innovative and advantageous mechanism of the Qianhai and Shekou Free Trade Area. Fourth, both parties shall push forward the construction of the financial services platform in the free trade zone, deepen the cross-border financial cooperation in a all-round way and to promote financial innovation in the area.   Shenzhen Stock Exchange, committed to developing and perfecting a multi-layer capital market system, provides substantial support to innovative SMEs and startups and is dedicated to the reform of the supply side. In recent years, with the internationalization of innovative enterprises and the opening up of the capital market in both directions, Shenzhen Stock Exchange serve to assist in the overseas merger and acquisition by listed companies, embracing the “Belt and Road Initiative” and the strategies of the free trade zone.   China Merchants Group is a state-owned conglomerate based in Hong Kong with its core businesses in the fields of transportation, finance and property. In recent years, China Merchants Group attaches considerable emphasis to innovation and restructuring. It strives to reinforce cooperation between capital and technological resources, and has gained a unique competitive edge in aspects such as industrial-financial integration, industry-city interaction, property rights-internet integration and technological innovation. In the meantime, China Merchants Group quickens its paces in the deployment of overseas ports and industrial parks, heeding the “Belt and Road Initiative” and the strategies of the free trade zone.   Shenzhen Stock Exchange and China Merchants Bank agreed that both sides are highly consistent in the promotion of industrial-financial integration, and the construction of cross-border investment and financing services system. Both sides shall, by taking the opportunity of signing the strategic cooperation agreement, jointly promote financial services that cater to the real economy, facilitate the restructuring and upgrading of the economy and to embrace the development strategies of the state in a broader and higher sense.

New Services launched in Shenzhen Stock Market to Facilitate Overseas Mergers and Acquisitions
date: 2016-3-22
--Shenzhen Stock Exchange Holds Seminars on Overseas Mergers and Acquisitions   On 17 and 18 March 2016, Shenzhen Stock Exchange held a seminar on the special topic of overseas mergers and acquisitions (Europeans Session), where over 120 trainees from more than 90 listed companies and companies applying for listing communicated and discussed in depth with relevant intermediaries about various aspects of the topic.   In recent years, Chinese enterprises have quickened the pace in overseas mergers and acquisitions, resulting in a dramatic rise in the number and the amount of mergers and acquisition overseas. Statistics shows that, in 2015 overseas mergers and acquisitions by Chinese enterprises amounted to USD162,000 million, a huge increase compared to the USD56,900 million in 2014. Listed companies are the major participants in such mergers and acquisitions, while SMEs, technological and private companies are also actively involved, marking the overseas mergers and acquisitions in recent years. However, most of the listed companies, especially the developing ones, are lacking in experiences in overseas mergers and acquisitions, and are facing problems in strategic planning, trading structure designing, financing arranging, payment tools, integration and etc. Their skills in relevant aspects are in urgent need to be upgraded; meanwhile most of the quality overseas resources for mergers and acquisition are to be discovered.   The seminars on overseas mergers and acquisitions are the Exchange’s attempt and exploration with joint forces to meet the need of the real economy, said a responsible person from the Exchange. The first seminar on this topic was held in Oct. 2015, and was welcomed and highly regarded by the market. To further focus on and cater to the need, the Exchange hosted the European session this time, with the help of embassies and consulates in China and overseas intermediaries, opening a window to mergers and acquisitions in Europe for the attendants by introducing in detail the relevant potential resources, legal environment, financial requirements, taxation system and etc. It is worth mention that representatives from companies who have participated in overseas mergers and acquisitions were invited to share their practical experience and communicate knowledge and skills in this regard. Concerning that mergers and acquisitions are also a key proint in market regulation, the Exchange also created a platform for communication between regulators and listed companies in order to regulate operation in mergers and acquisitions and to better protect the rights and interests of medium and small investors.   The seminars on mergers and acquisitions are not merely for the purpose of training, expressed the responsible person from the Exchange, they are also a platform for communication and support between and among companies listed in the Shenzhen Stock market and the intermediaries. Shenzhen Stock Exchange shall continue to work with the intermediaries and provide better services and assistance to listed companies going international. 

To Continue Optimizing Information Display and Improving Investor Services
date: 2016-3-18
--Shenzhen Stock Exchange’s Innovation on Information Disclosure-the Concise Display-Achieves Satisfying Results Shenzhen Stock Exchange, an important basic platform for the capital market to back the real economy and to meet the strategic needs of the state, has been committed to promoting and building an investor-driven market services system. In October 2015, to improve investor experiences and make it easier for investors to obtain information speedily and directly from the vast amount of announcements issued by listed companies, Shenzhen Stock Exchange, in collaboration with CNINF, released the concise display function for information disclosed by listed companies, a new function which optimizes the disclosed information by highlighting key announcements, revising the homepage of CNINF and improving the screening of and searching for announcements.   Following the release of the new function, Shenzhen Stock Exchange delivered the training program for companies listed in the Shenzhen stock market by remote webcast, familiarizing them with the concise display function of information disclosure and helping them properly chose the announcements to be displayed with priority. With the arrival of the peak for annual reports disclosing, recently Shenzhen Stock Exchange issued the Operating Guide on Concise Display for Information Disclosure of Listed Companies to further instruct and regulate listed companies to properly make use of the new function during information disclosure.   At the same time, Shenzhen Stock Exchange continues to track the operation of the new function by collecting and adopting advices from investors and listed companies for the purpose of optimization and to expand the preferential announcements from the homepage of CNINF to those of the listed companies. Furthermore, the Exchange also improved the concise display function by prioritizing the display of the announcements prior to the release of the new function by the standard of importance for announcements adopted by CNINF, making it more convenient for investor to check the key announcements.   It has been about 5 months since the new function was first released. Statistics revealed that, the number and contents of the announcements disclosed by listed companies being unchanged, the preferential announcements to be displayed account for 61% of the total announcements; the announcements are effectively highlighted which bear a closer relation with the investors. Innovated by Shenzhen Stock Exchange to improve investor services, the concise display function for information disclosure will assist investors, especially medium and small ones, in capturing important information from the listed companies. The new function catches on among investors in that it has greatly improved user experience and rendered information disclosing more effective,   The Exchange would continue to explore and innovate, expressed a related officer of Shenzhen Stock Exchange, and to provide information customization services. User accounts of CNINF would be authenticated and certified on “Interact Easy”, and vice versa, in which way investors would have more convenient and speedy accesses to information. The Exchange will continue to build and perfect a diversified services system. 　

Listen to the Heart of Investors,Improve and Perfect the Investor Education Services in an All-around Way
date: 2016-3-16
-- Protection of Investor Rights and Interests, Mar. 15, 2016, Serial activities launched by Shenzhen Stock Exchange In accordance with the Opinion on Further Enhancing the Protection of the Legitimate Rights and Interests of Medium and Small Investors in the Capital Market as issued by the general office of the state council, in the spirit of the State Securities and Futures Supervision Work Conference, Shenzhen Securities Exchange is launching a series of activities themed as Investor Rights and Interests Protection Mar, 15, to greet the World Consumer Rights Day. The activities include an award ceremony for the essay contest to encourage rational investment via which investors are encouraged to tell their own stories (“entering the Exchange”), the 14th on-line consultation on investor rights safeguarding on Mar. 15, the 25th “Realizing Chinese Dream, Entering the Sales Department of Securities Companies”, the 160th “Realizing Chinese Dream, Entering the Listed Companies”, release of the 2015 Investigation Report on Individual Investors, and so on.        Investors are the consumers of financial products, thus to safeguard investors’ rights and interests plays an important role in the sound and steady development of the capital market. Shenzhen Stock Exchange has hosted the serial activities of Mar. 15 investor rights protection for years. It steadily facilitates self-regulation, basing on the principle of openness, fairness and impartiality, with an aim to build a platform where the rights and interests of medium and small investors could be protected in an all-around way and to lay a solid foundation for the sound and steady development of the capital market in China.     To promote the concept of rational investment On Mar 14, Shenzhen Stock Exchange conducted the ceremony for essay contest to encourage rational investment where investors told their investment stories. To promote the concept of rational investment, Shenzhen Stock Exchange hosted the essay contest during the period of market abnormal fluctuations last year to collect from investors their works which revealed the psychological journey of the general investors growing with the Chinese stock market in the past 20 years and which inspired the general investors to think reasonably about market risks and investment strategies. Among the many works collected, there were new entrants describing the excitement of entering the market and veterans sharing their investment experiences. There are emotional surges, exhilaration of triumph, and deep thoughts and mediations of defeat, among which, the concept of rational and value investment took root and sprout.   There were 610 pieces of works collected, covering essays, novels, plays, classical Chinese poetries and etc. It took three rounds of screening sessions before the winners could be awarded the first prize, second prize, third prize, award of merit or others awards. The related officers from the Investor Protection Bureau of China Securities Regulation Commission and Shenzhen Stock Exchange attended the ceremony and awarded the prizes to the winners.         During the ceremony, the representative of prize winners delivered the acceptance speech, saying that he had condensed his experiences, verified his practice and revealed his honest thinking in his essay, hoping that via his years of exploration, witnessing and reflection, every investor may understand that, only by embracing the concept of rational investment, could one enjoy the happiness that comes along with investment in the unpredictable market.   To provide investors with services in an all-around way Shenzhen Stock Exchange shall, apart from guiding the investors to embrace the concept of rational investment, increase risk awareness and self-protection, persist on the principle of strict supervision and regulation, and perfect the long-term mechanism addressing various market risks, said a related officer from the Exchange. The Exchange shall also amend the implementation measures for and strengthen the risk management of marginal trading. Furthermore, the Exchange shall also formulate the Memorandum of Trading Suspension and Resumption of Listed Companies so as to regulate the listed companies’ behaviors in this regard. Besides, the Exchange shall also draft and amend relevant rules for structured funds, greatly improve information disclosing and increase the transparency of the market so that investors’ right to information may be fully protected.   First, Shenzhen Stock Exchange appointed an additional period in the morning for disclosure and another period for direct disclosure on non-trading days, in a way that enables listed companies to disclose information more timely and efficiently. Second, listed companies are regulated according to types of industries. Guidance for disclosure were formulated and amended 10 industries including the internet, the photovolt, and the energy conservation and environment protection sector, increasing the effectiveness of information disclosure. Third, a concise display function was created for information disclosed by listed companies, which makes it more convenient for investors to capture the information needed. Fourth, illegal stock trading shall be strictly investigated, and regulation of information disclosure regarding pledge of stock shall be reinforced.        Shenzhen Stock Exchange shall continue to improve the services platform for medium and small investors’ rights and interests, and make use of the role played by the 6 “Easies”, trying to provide considerate services to investors all around. Last year, Shenzhen Stock Exchange initiated the “Call Easy” Wechat platform, which allows for quick and smooth access and speedy response to investors’ claims; released the App “Interact Easy” targeting companies as end users, which allows investors and listed companies to interact and communicate more efficiently; released the web version of “Analyze Easy”, filling the market void and providing the more analyzing and learning tools for rational investing; conducted several investigations “Collect Easy” on investors, listening to the opinions and suggestions from investors on relevant rules.   It is said that Shenzhen Stock Exchange shall continue to promote the platform of the 6 “Easies” and the three themed activities on investor education in 2016, and to further perfect the one-stop services mechanism. It shall launch the exclusive column for name change of listed companies for the convenience of investors’ queries of history of used names of listed companies. It shall conduct the financial experiments on investor behaviors, trying to promote rational investment. The Exchange shall also build an investors’ home based on the principles of “openness, interaction, and sharing”, aiming to furnish a high-level and professional foundation for investor interaction and education.     Furthermore, among the serial activities on March 15 investor rights and interests protection, the 14th on-line consultation on investor rights safeguarding shall be launched on Mar. 15, the 25th “Realizing Chinese Dream, Entering the Sales Department of Securities Companies” on Mar. 16, the 160th “Realizing Chinese Dream, Entering the Listed Companies” on Mar. 17. Via the three themed activities of “entering and inviting” for investor education, the Exchange manages to serve the general medium and small investors and set an example for the market.

SZSE Promulgates the Guidelines for Bond Business and Answers to Related Frequently Asked Questions to Regulate Issuance and Other Businesses of Corporate Bonds
date: 2016-2-22
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) recently promulgated the Guidelines for Bond Business No.1 – Listing Pre-approval, Issuance and Listing Business of Public Offering Corporate Bonds, Guidelines for Bond Business No.2 – Issuance, Transfer Application and Investor Eligibility Management Business of Private Placement Corporate Bonds and Answers to Questions Related with Issuance and Listing/Transfer of Corporate Bonds, so as to regulate the pre-approval, issuance and listing business of corporate bonds, and improve the information disclosure quality and standardized operation level of issuers and intermediary organizations.   The Guidelines for Bond Business has given detailed introduction to related business processes, application requirements, application materials or format requirements for contents of information disclosure before listing/transfer of corporate bonds. Guideline No.1 has raised the standardization requirements for the handling procedures, application materials preparation and so on in the pre-approval, issuance and listing business processes of public offering corporate bonds, including refining the treatment arrangements for special circumstances in pre-approval, audit requirements in case of major assets restructuring, scope of verification opinions of intermediary organizations and time limit for submitting issuance and listing application. Guideline No.2 has regulated the transfer eligibility confirmation, issuance, transfer and other related business processes of private placement corporate bonds, application materials, requirements for preparation of information disclosure announcements and investor eligibility management business process, etc., and added the issuance prepositional procedure regarding reporting of lead underwriters on whether issuers have any major events or not and relevant materials to SZSE before the issuance of private placement corporate bonds. And the Answers to Questions Related with Issuance and Listing/Transfer of Corporate Bonds has clearly delivered answers to common problems of market generality and policy tendency to the market in the form of questions and answers.   Related officer of SZSE said, SZSE has constantly perfected relevant business rules, optimized audit efficiency and enhanced audit transparency to coordinate the corporate bonds issuance system reform of China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”), the issuance volume of SZSE listed corporate bonds has increased rapidly in 2015, the financing cost has been significantly reduced, and the financial service efficiency for real economy has been effectively enhanced. The Guidelines for Bond Business is an important measure of SZSE to further promote the construction of standardized and transparent system for corporate bonds information disclosure and guide intermediary organizations to be diligent and responsible after the Rules for Listing of Corporate Bonds and relevant matching rules promulgated by SZSE in May 2015 according to CSRC’s Management Measures on Issuance and Transaction of Corporate Bonds. With the further development of corporate bond business, SZSE will constantly sum up experience, timely perfect matching business rules system, enhance the operability of business rules and transparency of relevant supervision, and strengthen the publicity, demonstration and guidance for issuers and relevant intermediary organizations by establishing routine special training on corporate bonds, etc..

Stock Market Holiday Schedule (2016)
date: 2015-12-25
1. New Year:  The market will close on 1 January (Friday) and resume trading on 4 January (Monday).   2. Spring Festival: The market will close from 7 February (Sunday) to 14 February (Sunday), and resume trading on 15 February (Monday).   3. Qingming Festival:  The market will close from 2 April (Saturday) to 4 April (Monday), and resume trading on 5 April (Tuesday).   4. Labour Day: The market will close on 30 April (Saturday) and resume trading on 3 May (Tuesday).   5. Dragon Boat Festival:  The market will close from 9 June (Thursday) to 12 June (Sunday), and resume trading on 13 June (Monday).   6. Mid-Autumn Festival: The market will close on 15 September (Thursday), and resume trading on 19 September (Monday).   7. National Day:  The market will close from 1 October (Saturday) to 9 October (Sunday), and resume trading on 10 October (Monday).   * The market will close on weekends. * For clearing and settlement arrangement, please refer to the notice of the China Securities Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd.      

Shenzhen Stock Exchange Signs MOU with Tel Aviv Stock Exchange
date: 2016-2-2
Tel Aviv Stock Exchange (TASE) and Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) in Shenzhen. Mr. Wu Lijun, Chairman of SZSE and Mr. Amnon Neubach, Chairman of TASE attended the signing ceremony. According to the MOU, the two exchanges will share experience in SME and technology financing, cooperate in index-based product development and explore market linkup and product cross-listing.   Mr. Wu Lijun, Chairman of SZSE, said that China and Israel are both committed to fostering entrepreneurship and innovation. With in-depth cooperation, the two exchanges will be able to pool innovative resources across borders and combine advantages in technology and market, thus creating a win-win situation.   Amnon Neubach, Chairman of TASE, said that innovation is the character of the Israeli enterprises. Israel has formed a supporting policy and financial eco-system for entrepreneurship and innovation. Israeli enterprises are listed globally, thus making full use of the international resources for continuous development. The TASE would like to explore all areas of possible cooperation with the SZSE to support the development of entrepreneurship and innovation.   About TASE: Tel Aviv Stock Exchange (TASE), which was established in 1953, is the only public stock exchange in Israel. The TASE handles trade in all forms of securities for investors, including stocks, bonds, ETFs and derivatives. As of December 2015, the TASE has a total of 461 listed companies, including 46 cross-listing companies, and a total market capitalization of USD 243.9 billion. For more information: www.tase.co.il   About SZSE: Shenzhen Stock Exchange was established in 1990. Over the past 25 years, Shenzhen Stock Exchange has developed a multi-tiered capital market system comprising of the mainboard, SME Board and ChiNext Market. As of 31st December 2015, SZSE had 1746 listed companies with 23.61 trillion yuan (USD 3.64 trillion) in market capitalization and recorded 122.50 trillion yuan (USD 18.87 trillion) in total turnover.

SZSE Listed Innovative and Growth Enterprises Realize Fast Business Performance Growth in 2015
date: 2016-2-1
As of January 30, 2016, companies listed on ChiNext board and SME board of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) all disclosed their estimated change in 2015 net profit in the forms of business performance forecast, annual report, listing announcement and so on according to relevant requirements. Because the earnings preannouncement system hasn’t been overall implemented in SZSE Main board listed companies, the complete business performance situation will be disclosed in annual report. The data shows that SZSE ChiNext board and SME board listed companies continue to maintain medium and high speed growth momentum for actively promoting self-development, transformation and upgrading as well as implementing the development ideas of “innovation, coordination, environmental protection, openness and sharing”.   I. Business performance situation of ChiNext board listed companies   In 2015, 492 ChiNext board listed companies are expected to realize an average net profit ranging from RMB 116 million and 136 million respectively, with a year-on-year growth rate ranging from 19.2% to 39.2% respectively. Among them, 299 companies gain net profit growth in the same direction, accounting for 61%; 30 companies have little change in net profit, 10 companies turn losses into gains, 131 companies suffer net profit decrease in the same direction, while 22 companies suffer losses.   From the perspective of net profit growth rate, 8 companies including East Money are expected to realize a year-on-year net profit growth of more than 500% respectively. And 60 companies including Wen’s Foodstuff, Shengyun Environment and Jinlong are expected to realize a year-on-year net profit growth of more than 100% respectively.   From the perspective of net profit volume, Wen’s Foodstuff, East Money, Lens Technology and Originwater are expected to realize a net profit of more than RMB 1 billion respectively. 35 companies including Enlight Media and Robot are expected to realize a net profit of more than RMB 300 million respectively. And 163 companies including Jincheng Pharmaceutical and Shenwu Environmental are expected to realize a net profit of RMB 100 million respectively.   From the perspective of industry, internet, ecological protection and environmental management, radio, film and television and electrical machinery industries witness fast business performance growth in 2015. Among them, the internet industry is expected to realize a growth rate ranging from 132% to 164%, while the ecological protection and environmental management industry is expected to realize a growth rate ranging from 36% to 65%.   II. Business performance situation of SME board listed companies   777 SME board listed companies are expected to realize an average net profit ranging from RMB 185 million and 234 million respectively, with a year-on-year growth rate ranging from 8.86% to 37.88% respectively, which shows that SME board listed companies have maintained a certain economic vitality and realized stable business performance growth under the background of tremendous pressure faced by macro economy. Among them, 307 companies gain a year-on-year net profit growth respectively, accounting for nearly 40%; 120 companies realize a net profit growth rate of more than 30% respectively, while 71 companies suffer losses.   From the perspective of net profit volume, 23 companies including Guosen Securities are expected to realize a net profit of more than RMB 1 billion respectively. 61 companies including Kelun Pharmaceutical are expected to realize a net profit of more than RMB 500 million respectively. And 113 companies including O-film are expected to realize a net profit of more than RMB 300 million respectively. From the perspective of industry, 612 manufacturing companies listed on SME board are expected to realize a year-on-year business performance growth ranging from -1% to 30% in 2015 respectively. Finance, software and information technology industries are expected to gain overall business performance growth, with the growth rate ranging from 102% to 107% and from 19% to 54% respectively. However, animal husbandry, real estate, mineral exploitation and other traditional industries still face severe business environment, which are expected to suffer overall business performance decrease respectively.   The annual report performance forecast shows that strategic emerging industry companies exceed the average level in profit volume, which have good development prospect.

Shenzhen Stock Exchange Holds “Shenzhen Corporate Day” Event for Overseas Investors in Hong Kong
date: 2016-1-26
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) and Goldman Sachs & Co. jointly organized the second “Shenzhen Corporate Day” event in Hong Kong between January 18 and 19, 2016. Over 300 representatives of major overseas investment institutions from the United States, Europe, Singapore and Hong Kong and senior executives of 22 SZSE-listed companies have participated in the event.   Among the 22 companies present, eight are from the Main Board, eight from the SME Board and six from the ChiNext Market. These companies come from a variety of sectors including medicine, real estate, industry services, telecommunication, food and beverage, environmental protection, appliances manufacturing and media. Based on a matching mechanism, investors could set up one-on-one, face to face meetings with companies that they are mostly interested in, and learn companies’ current operations, prospects and industry characteristics.   The corporate day event was not only open to Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors (QFIIs), but also welcomed a wide range of overseas institutional investors including asset management companies, mutual funds, hedge funds and investment banks, etc. During the event, representatives of both listed companies and the SZSE have answered in detailed all questions raised by overseas investors.   The SZSE has organized and held eight sessions of Listed Companies’ Open House Program for Foreign Investors, and has formed a mechanism for supporting listed companies to enhance international investor relations services and management. In the future, SZSE will continue to improve the cross-border service platform for listed companies, enhance the quality of content, gather both domestic and overseas innovative resources, and promote the internationalization process of listed companies.  

SZSE Promulgated the Notice on Doing Well 2015 Annual Report Disclosure Work of Bond Issuers to Promote the Implementation of Disclosure Requirements for Annual Report of Corporate Bonds
date: 2016-1-25
China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”) recently promulgated the Rules for Contents and Format of Information Disclosure by Companies Offering Securities to the Public No.38 – Contents and Format of Annual Report of Corporate Bonds (hereinafter referred to as “Rules for Annual Report of Corporate Bonds”), so as to standardize the annual report information disclosure behaviors of issuers offering corporate bonds to the public and further improve the market information disclosure quality as well as protect investors’ legal rights and interests. In order to coordinate the implementation of the Rules for Annual Report of Corporate Bonds, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) promulgated the Notice on Doing Well 2015 Annual Report Disclosure Work of Bond Issuers (hereinafter referred to as “Notice on Annual Report Disclosure”). The Rules for Annual Report of Corporate Bonds includes 4 chapters and 51 articles, which provides detailed provisions on requirements for contents and format of annual report of public placement corporate bonds, and also optimizes the annual report information disclosure of listed companies with the Supplementary Provisions for Annual Report Disclosure of Listed Companies Offering Corporate Bonds to the Public. Now more and more eligible enterprises, especially non-listed companies, gain direct financing by issuing corporate bonds, CSRC’s move defines the information disclosure requirements for annual report of public placement corporate bonds, further improve issuers’ information disclosure quality and standard operation level, push forward the standardization and transparency of information disclosure on corporate bonds, promote standardization by supervision, and realize the effective connection of prospectus disclosure with continuous information disclosure. Since the implementation of the new rules for corporate bonds from the beginning of 2015, SZSE has orderly carried out relevant corporate bonds issuance and trading work under the new rules, further enhanced audit efficiency and continuously reinforced the audit transparency, so as to actively play a role in serving the real economy. So far, about half of the issuers applying for public placement corporate bonds to SZSE are non-listed companies, SZSE will actively take measures to continuously strengthen the supervision and management on information disclosure of credit corporate bonds under CSRC’s unified deployment. As a matching system, SZSE’s Notice on Annual Report Disclosure has raised related specific requirements for the implementation of the Rules for Annual Report of Corporate Bonds. Firstly, it clearly defines the compilation requirements, disclosure time and submission way of annual report; secondly, it requires issuers and trustees to learn various provisions to carefully prepare and timely submit their annual reports; thirdly, it clearly defines that corporate bond issuers should prepare, submit and disclose annual reports according to the No.38 Rules and relevant regulations of SZSE. Moreover, it clearly defines the responsibilities of issuers and intermediary institutions, and stipulates to adopt self-discipline regulatory measures on related responsible persons who fail to fulfill the information disclosure obligations. SZSE will continue to adhere to the market-oriented principles and further strengthen supervision and management on information disclosure. In order to promote the market participants to get familiar with and understand relevant rules, SZSE will strengthen the propaganda and guidance for issuers and relevant intermediary institutions by ways of training and seminar, etc., and study on formulating matching system to continuously perfect the rules system for information disclosure of corporate bonds, and actually implement the supervision during and after the trading process.

Give Full Play to Shenzhen Stock Exchange’s Role as an Infrastructure Platform under the Guidance of New Development Concept
date: 2016-1-22
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) has held study sessions to grasp the spirit of the Fifth Plenum of the 18th CPC Committee, speeches delivered by President Xi and 2016 National Conference on Securities and Futures Regulation. Through the study, all participants agree that the CPC Central Committee and State Council’s call for strengthening financial service to the real economy and promoting supply-side structural reform has laid a solid foundation for long-term and stable development of capital market. As an important platform for capital market to support the real economy and serve national strategies, SZSE should play a greater role in facilitating economic transition and upgrading in line with the nation’s opening-up strategy. In 2016, SZSE will place emphasis on serving supply-side structural reform and “One Belt One Road” initiative, strengthening market institution and human resources, preventing and controlling risks. We will focus on the following five key areas in 2016.   First, we will comprehensively serve the supply-side structural reform. SZSE will implement concepts of “innovative, coordinated, green, open and sharing” development, promote reform and innovation in capital market, support structural reforms, intensify momentum of development and comprehensively improve the ability to serve the real economy. We will actively implement tasks required by registration-based system reform in stock issuance, expand the Main Board and the SME Board, deepen reforms in the ChiNext Market, diversify bond and asset-backed securities product lines, improve financing function to facilitate incremental development. We will improve market-based M&A system and optimize existing structure. We will strengthen market service and cultivation and improve capital market’s service for key areas, regions and enterprises.   Second, we will comprehensive serve the “One Belt One Road” initiative. SZSE will leverage technical, professional and geographical advantages to explore differentiated development paths of opening up. We will launch Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect, promote recognized Hong Kong funds to list and trade on SZSE LOF platform and recognized ETFs to cross-list on Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Hong Kong Exchange. We will faciliate planning of China (Guangdong) Free Trade Zone and develop Qianhai cross-border financial product trading platform. We will research on promoting strategic cooperation with countries and regions along the Belt and Road in financial infrastructure and services. We will develop characteristic indices and promote cross-listing of cross-border fund products. We will develop offshore information disclosure and investment service platforms and foster international innovative enterprise community.   Third, we will focus on solidifying the foundation of market operation system. SZSE will develop solid research and evaluation on various reform and work plans, improve fundamental institution of the Main Board and the SME Board, implement top-layer design of the ChiNext Market reforms. We will promote reform in trading system and improve intrinsic stabilization mechanism. We will optimize front-line supervision system, optimize guidelines on information disclosure by sectors and strictly implement delisting system. We will focus on improving the regulation on high-risk companies, major shareholders’ sell-off and companies with delisting risk. We will improve investor eligibility management system and strengthen investor education and protection.   Fourth, we will focus on consolidating the foundation of professional talents. SZSE will implement requirements of Strict Party Governance, reinforce the Party’s construction and implement inspection rectification. We will actively explore favorable systems and mechanisms for human resource development and accelerate the formation of a highly qualified and well-structured professional team. We will optimize personnel training mechanism and create a favorable development environment for growth and success. We will improve personnel deployment mechanism and enhance staff vitality. We will comprehensively improve personnel’s ability to adapt to new circumstances and face up to new challenges at various levels and through diverse channels, offering a platform of growth to motivate personnel’s enthusiasm, commitment and creativity.   Fifth, we will strictly defend the bottom line in risk prevention. With deep-rooted bottom-line thinking, SZSE will secure risk management defense, implement the prevention and control of market and operational risk. We will strengthen our ability to assess, alert, detect and dispose of cross-product, cross-market and cross-border risk. We will ascertain stock-taking for regulation, optimize data monitoring, strength risk control of bond, structured funds and other products and optimize product and business innovation risk management. We will improve our IT system’s level of operation and maintenance, effectively guarantee safe and sound operation of core systems. We will strengthen governance and management framework, improve checks of power, and strictly prevent risks against clean acts.   SZSE Party committee emphatically stated that serious learning and implementing of guidelines and policies of the CPC Central Committee and State Council and strategic missions laid out by National Conference on Securities and Futures Regulation are a fundamental task for SZSE to continue to deepen its work. All staff shall further strengthen confidence, enhance the sense of mission and responsibility, focus strength to overcome difficulties, promote reform, innovation, opening and development of multi-tiered capital market, exert full effort to serve the national development strategies in a broader scope and at a higher level.

The Work Meeting on Launching the Mainland China and Hong Kong Fund Mutual Recognition Service Platform was Convened in Shenzhen
date: 2016-1-11
On January 8, 2016, the Work Meeting on Launching the Mainland China and Hong Kong Fund Mutual Recognition Service Platform was convened in Shenzhen. More than 100 distinguished guests from China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”), Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong (“SFC”), Hong Kong Monetary Authority (“HKMA”), Shenzhen Municipal Government, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) and China Securities Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd. (“CSDC”) as well as fund companies, sales organizations, securities companies and trust institutions in Mainland China and Hong Kong were presented at the meeting. The distinguished guests witnessed the launch of the platform together, and carried out in-depth discussion and exchange on the operation and improvement of the platform and the development and perfection of Mainland China and Hong Kong fund mutual recognition mechanism.   CSRC and SFC started to accept applications for fund mutual recognition from Mainland China and Hong Kong fund managers from July 1, 2015 and formally register mutually-recognized funds from December 18, 2015. In order to coordinate the implementation of Mainland China and Hong Kong fund mutual recognition business, SZSE, CSDC, Shenzhen Securities Communication Co., Ltd. and HKMA jointly launched the fund mutual recognition platform under the support of CSRC and SFC as well as Shenzhen Municipal Government. The platform is connected with HKMA’s Central Money Market Units (“CMU”), related institutions in Mainland China and Hong Kong can realize data exchange, secondary registration and trusteeship and fund settlement for cross-border fund sales just by accessing to the platform from a single point. After several rounds of simulation tests, the platform has received enthusiastic response from market institutions, more than 60 Mainland China and Hong Kong institutions have participated in the tests of the platform as manager, general agency, sales organization or fund transfer agent. On December 5, 2015, the platform was officially launched. On December 29, 2015, China AMC Return Mixed Fund, as one of the first mutually-recognized fund product, was successfully sold in Hong Kong market through the fund mutual recognition service platform. On January 4, 2016, Xingjian Hongyang China Fund was successfully sold in Mainland China market through the fund mutual recognition service platform, which marks the successful two-way opening up of the fund mutual recognition service platform.   Ms. Song Liping, General Manager of SZSE, said at the meeting, Mainland China and Hong Kong fund mutual recognition is the opening up of service trade, China Capital Market has walked towards the opening up of higher level, which has important significance in expanding the investment channel for investors at home and abroad, providing diversified investment products and investment management services and promoting domestic fund management institutions to improve their market competitiveness. The interconnection of Mainland China and Hong Kong fund markets needs financial infrastructure as implementation guarantee. The fund mutual recognition service platform is the financial infrastructure for the interconnection of Mainland China and Hong Kong fund markets, which marks that Mainland China and Hong Kong fund markets have made substantive progress in financial infrastructure cooperation. Thanks to strong support from Mainland China and Hong Kong regulation departments and Shenzhen Municipal Government, joint efforts of all platform construction parties and active participation of market institutions, the fund mutual recognition service platform was successfully launched. After the smooth operation of the first phase, the platform will explore to connect with more overseas fund service platform, support Mainland fund managers to build TA mode and Hong Kong mutually-recognized funds to be purchased, redeemed and traded in SZSE, and optimize cross-border capital settlement function.   Mr. Dai Wenhua, General Manager of CSDC, said, it’s CSDC’s incumbent duties to ensure the efficient and safe operation of fund mutual recognition projects, protect the legal rights and interests of investors at home and abroad and support and serve the regulation institutions for fund mutual recognition. CSDC will follow the principles of interconnectivity and mutual benefits to sincerely cooperate with all parties, hand in hand, to fully support the smooth operation of the fund mutual recognition platform. Meanwhile, CSDC will continue to actively assist SZSE to launch projects such as Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect program, so as to provide more efficient and safer infrastructure support for the further expanding two-way opening up of capital markets.   Li Jianying, Assistant President of HKMA, said, fund mutual recognition, as an important policy for interconnection of Mainland China and Hong Kong capital markets, realizes safe, fast, reliable and actual implementation through the new financial infrastructure of fund mutual recognition service platform. It benefits far more than just the fund industries of both sides, but also investors of both sides. We hope more market participating institutions choose standard and automatic fund trading platform to reduce operation risks. In the future, all parties of the mutual recognition platform will improve the platform from many aspects, so as to bring better services and more contributions to the fund markets and industries of both sides.   Related officers of CSRC and SFC said, Mainland China and Hong Kong fund mutual recognition is another major measure for the implementation of two-way opening up strategy of Mainland capital market after Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect program launched in 2014, which helps promote the deeply integration and development of Mainland China and Hong Kong capital markets. There are differences between the operation rules of fund industries of both sides, the “fund mutual recognition service platform” helps eliminate differences in fund business operation of both sides, so as to better serve fund investors of both sides at the same time of reducing the business costs of fund mutual recognition participating institutions of both sides. We hope the platform run smoothly, and we believe that more market participants will use the platform in the future.   As for the subsequent supervision and arrangement for the fund mutual recognition work, CSRC and SFC said that the following three works need to be well done: firstly, the daily supervision work after mutual recognition of funds should be well done, which mainly includes continuous monitoring of data statistics of mutually-recognized funds and enhanced supervision on sales behaviors and information disclosure of mutually-recognized fund products; secondly, the registration work of mutually-recognized fund products should be steadily pushed forward, CSRC and SFC will jointly evaluate and study on issues related with fund mutual recognition and gradually expand and enrich the types of mutually-recognized fund products after the operation of the first-batch mutually-recognized fund products for some time and accumulation of a certain experience; thirdly, the cooperation in fund mutual recognition regulation between CSRC and SFC should be strengthened. CSRC and SFC will maintain close communication and cooperation, strengthen market monitoring and information sharing, establish regular reporting mechanism on major information of fund products and managers and investigate all kinds of illegal behaviors in accordance with the law, so as to maintain the market fairness, openness and impartiality as well as investors’ legal rights and interests. They hope the platform continue to enrich its service contents according to the new requirements for development of fund mutual recognition, so as to better serve investors.   The presented industry representatives fully confirmed the fund mutual recognition service platform, they unanimously agreed that the platform helps eliminate the differences in fund business operation of both sides, reduce cross-border fund operation costs and enhance the operation efficiency of cross-border fund sales. They integrated their own needs and actual situation to provide many construction opinions on further improving the service platform and promoting the development of fund mutual recognition business.

SZSE Promulgates the Matching Information Disclosure Announcement Format for the Several Regulations on Decrease of Shareholding of Substantial Shareholders, Directors, Supervisors and Senior Executives
date: 2016-1-8
In order to realize effective connection of regulation policies and implement the spirit of the Several Regulations on Decrease of Shareholding of Substantial Shareholders, Directors, Supervisors and Senior Executives made by China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”), Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) recently revised related announcement format for information disclosure of listed companies.   The revised announcement format has refined the pre-announcement system for shareholding decrease plan of substantial shareholders, meanwhile, it also requires listed companies to timely disclose the implementation situation of shareholding decrease plan after the decrease of shareholding by substantial shareholders, so as to actually protect investors’ rights and interests and facilitate them to know the situation on decrease of shareholding by substantial shareholders.  

Chairman's Greetings
date: 2016-1-1
 In 2015, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) has resolutely implemented the strategy of Central Committee of the CPC and the State Council. Under the leadership of China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the SZSE has maintained market stability, promoted reform and innovation, advanced regulatory transformation and served the real economy. By adhering to market-oriented reforms, the SZSE has deepened the basic functions of market organization, supervision and services. All market sections have witnessed steady improvement in quality and their ability to support real economy and serve national development strategies through finance.   As of December 31, the SZSE recorded 1746 of listed companies, 23.61 trillion yuan (USD 3.64 trillion) of market capitalization, 122.50 trillion yuan (USD 18.87 trillion) of total turnover, and the Shenzhen Component Index rose 9.93% in 2015. There are 476 of listed funds, 1448 of listed bonds and 53 of asset-back securities products. In 2015, the SZSE completed the expansion of Shenzhen Component Index, offered Shenzhen and Hong Kong mutual recognition of funds, implemented reforms in corporate bonds market, developed “LeFu fund supermarket”, and launched innovative products such as silver LOF, Nasdaq 100 ETF and Penghua Qianhai REITS. We hereby express heartfelt thanks to market participants, relevant parties and the public for your long-term attention and support for the development of multi-tiered capital market and Shenzhen Stock Exchange.   2016 marks the beginning year of “13th Five-Year” plan. Reform and development in the multi-tiered capital market face new opportunities. The SZSE will conduct strict internal management, enhance safe operation as well as risk prevention and control, continue to promote regulatory transformation and two-way market opening, lead development through reform and innovation, and cultivate the market long-term growth momentum.   Frist, we will implement the strategic deployment of the CSRC and promote reform and development in the capital market. The SZSE will implement the requirements of registration-based IPO system reform, deepen the reform of the ChiNext Market, launch specialized tiers for the ChiNext Market, pave the way for companies to transfer to the ChiNext Market from  NEEQ, restore IPO for the Main Board, improve the SME Board for return of the small and medium-sized “China concept” stocks listed overseas; promote and implement pilot project of entrusted law enforcement; advance and practice the stock and debt separation scheme; actively promote the launch of the Shenzhen 100 ETF options and CSI 300 ETF options.   Second, we will strengthen front-line supervision and supervisory transformation to enhance the self-disciplinary mechanism. The SZSE will actively promote the reform of trading rules, explore differentiated trading mechanisms for stocks with different market capitalization; improve information disclosure supervision of listed companies in response to the diverse natures of different boards; strengthen credit supervision for fixed income products; adhere to strict, balanced and active supervision approach, enhance stock-taking of regulatory subjects, plan and construct operational risk monitoring platform for products and market and construct big-data text mining regulatory information support system.   Third, we will enrich exchange-traded product lines reflecting characteristics of Shenzhen Market and accelerate product innovation and development. The SZSE will vigorously develop bond market, promote issuance of high-yield debt and perpetual debt products, expand exchangeable bonds and other related debt products; promote REITS and other asset-backed securities products to play a greater role in key areas of the real economy; strengthen and expand the key ETF products based on CSI 300, Shenzhen 100, the SME Board index and the ChiNext index, and conduct R&D on the commodity futures ETF and other innovative products.   Fourth, we will accelerate cross-border cooperation, and promote bilateral market opening and connection at an elevated starting level. The SZSE will actively seek to launch "Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect" program as soon as possible, promote the mutually recognized funds of Hong Kong to list on the SZSE LOF platform and facilitate mutually recognized ETFs to cross-list on the SZSE and Hong Kong Stock Exchange; develop cross-border funds tracking overseas core indices and characteristic indices, develop cross-listing of core indices and information services; construct overseas information service platform, overseas investment service platform, global innovative business community, as well as complement financial reform and development plan of the Free Trade Zone, and construct Qianhai cross-border financial products trading platform.   Fifth, we will expand platforms and channels and actively cultivate the market’s long-term growth momentum. The SZSE will deepen service for investors, enhance fairness and information symmetry , improve value-added information service, facilitate exercise of shareholders’ rights; improve penetration of business cultivation and service, comprehensively deepen counseling and training, information research, sharing and interaction, and docking of investment to financing needs; expand coverage of cultivation and services, construct network-style work platform to integrate services in innovative equity securities, fixed income, mergers and acquisitions, sustainable financing and promotion of integrated value chain of products and business; offer favorable policies to support key areas and weak links of the real economy, serve agricultural industrialization and new urbanization, implement special service plan for the midwestern and northeastern regions of the country and main industries.   Sixth, we will enhance internal management and development and continuously build the core competitiveness of the SZSE. The SZSE will improve strategic management, draft and implement strategic plans for development, orderly promote mid-term and long-term objectives and tasks; comprehensively implement governance requirements, strengthen the role and function of the SZSE Board and the special committees, improve permanent mechanisms of the general assembly, further expand the scope of decision making of the members’ meeting, expand and enhance function and status of the members’ meeting as the highest authority of the exchange, establish sustainable and effective mechanisms of opinion collection and feedback, initiate research on inclusion of overseas institutions as special members, to exert the important role of the members in the governance, reform and development of the exchange; conduct strict internal management and enhance transparency, with a focus on anti-corruption; consolidate human resources and information technology as strategic support, ensure successful launch and stable operation of the new-generation trading system, safeguard the smooth progress of reform and innovation.   We sincerely hope to have the constant care and support of the whole society and we look forward to your active participation and valuable suggestions.  

SZSE Promulgates the Format of Announcement on Equity Pledge by Shareholders of Listed Companies
date: 2015-12-31
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) recently promulgated the Format of Announcement on Equity Pledge (including Freeze, Auction and Trust Creation) by Shareholders of Listed Companies (hereinafter referred to as “Format of Announcement on Equity Pledge by Shareholders of Listed Companies”), aiming to further standardize the information disclosure on the behaviors of equity pledge (including freeze, auction and trust creation) by shareholders of listed companies and improve the effectiveness and pertinence of information disclosure on equity pledge of listed companies.   In recent years, with the active trading in capital market and high demand for capital liquidity, it is common for shareholders of listed companies to get financing by way of equity pledge, etc.. According to the data statistics of Wind, shareholders of more than 900 listed companies in the Shanghai and Shenzhen Stock Exchange got financing by equity pledge from January to June 2015, with more than 2700 times of pledge. Some controlling shareholders of listed companies pledge more than 80% of shares held by them, the pledge proportion is relatively high.   Related officer of SZSE said, SZSE has been paying great attention to the high-proportion equity pledge of listed companies, as for the circumstances that controlling shareholders of listed companies pledge high proportion of shares held by them, it has reinforced the regulation for information disclosure on equity pledge behaviors of controlling shareholders by ways of sending regulation concerned letter to listed companies and requiring listed companies to strengthen risk disclosure in announcements, etc.. According to the statistics, SZSE has sent 69 regulation concerned letters to 63 listed companies for the circumstances that controlling shareholders of listed companies pledge high proportion of shares held by them since the beginning of 2015. During the abnormal stock price fluctuation in Chinese stock market in 2015, some controlling shareholders of listed companies faced the risks of their equity pledge proportion to touch the warning line or position liquidation line, SZSE required more than 30 companies applying for trading suspension to disclose the equity pledge proportion of controlling shareholders in announcements, and more than 10 listed companies to disclose controlling shareholders and their position liquidation risk status, so as to strengthen the requirements for information disclosure on equity pledge behaviors of controlling shareholders of listed companies and reinforce the revelation of equity pledge risk of controlling shareholders.      As for new problems and situations arising in the market, the Format of Announcement on Equity Pledge by Shareholders of Listed Companies formulated by SZSE, on one hand, enables investors to fully understand the equity pledge, freeze and other situations of shareholders of listed companies, on the other hand, enables investors to timely know the position liquidation risk existed in the equity pledge of controlling shareholders of listed companies. It is said that listed companies should timely disclose announcements when more than 5% shares of the Company held by any shareholder are pledged, frozen or under other situations, or shares held by controlling shareholders have position liquidation risk or compulsory transfer risk. It is known that the information disclosure requirements in the Format of Announcement on Equity Pledge by Shareholders of Listed Companies cover the following three aspects:   Firstly, it requires disclose relevant equity pledge information of shareholders in a table format, including name of shareholder, number of pledged shares, pledgee and proportion of pledged shares in total shares held by the shareholder. Relevant information disclosed in a table format enables investors to understand relevant situations of equity pledge of shareholders of listed companies in a more intuitive and comprehensive way.   Secondly, it further defines that listed companies should disclose the name of shareholder, the first majority shareholder or not, number of frozen, auctioned or trust-created shares and proportion of such shares in total shares held by the shareholder, and specific situation of equity freeze, auction or trust creation when shareholders’ shares are frozen, auctioned or created trust.   Thirdly, it clearly defines that listed companies should disclose the possibility of change in actual control right, remedial measures adopted by controlling shareholders and risk of change in actual controller when pledged shares of controlling shareholders exist the position liquidation risk, or frozen, auctioned or trust-created shares of controlling shareholders exist compulsory transfer risk. Meanwhile, listed companies should fulfill the obligations of continuous information disclosure on subsequent progress.   Related officer of SZSE said, SZSE would continue to strengthen the regulation on equity pledge, freeze and other behaviors of shareholders of listed companies. Moreover, the Format of Announcement on Equity Pledge by Shareholders of Listed Companies had been included into the Memorandum of Information Disclosure Business of Listed Companies, relevant contents can be found under the Rules and Regulations Section of SZSE’s official website.  

Successful Implementation of Overall Listing of SZSE’s First A-share Transformed from Existing A-share and B-share
date: 2015-12-30
The Plan of Merger and Acquisition of China Merchants Property Development Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “Merchants Property”) by China Merchants Shekou Industrial Zone Holdings Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “Merchants Shekou”) through A-share Offering for Shares Swap has been successfully implemented recently. And Merchants Shekou is listed in Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) on December 30, 2015. This is the first case of merger and acquisition of A-share and B-share of existing listed company by a non-listed company through share offering for shares swap.   Merchants Shekou and Merchants Property started merger and acquisition work from April 2015, and gained the approval from China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”) on November 27, 2015. With the full support and joint efforts of SZSE and China Securities Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd. Shenzhen Branch, relevant merger and acquisition work was pushed forward efficiently, for examples, B-share of Merchants Property was delisted on December 11, 2015 and cash option implementation was completed on December 17, 2015, A-share of Merchants Property was delisted and Merchants Shekou was listed on December 30, 2015, so as to successfully realize the overall listing of Merchants Shekou.   After the offering, the total number of RMB ordinary shares of Merchants Shekou is 7,401,797,599, and 1,899,438,240 shares from the 1,901,797,599 shares in the public offering are tradable since the listing date. As estimated by the opening reference price of 25.30 yuan per share, the aggregate market value of Merchants Shekou would be 180 billion yuan.   Related officer of SZSE said, the case marks an important progress of capital market in serving and supporting state-owned enterprise reform. Capital market is an important platform for deepening state-owned enterprise reform, and state-owned enterprise reform is an important driver for the healthy development of capital market. SZSE will further implement the guiding opinions of the CPC Central Committee and State Council on deepening state-owned enterprise reform, constantly optimize the merger, acquisition and restructuring environment, vigorously push forward state-owned enterprise restructuring and listing, and promote group company for overall listing and becoming better and stronger through capital market.

SZSE Promulgates Information Disclosure Guidelines for Livestock Breeding and Aquaculture, Solid Mineral Resources and Real Estate Industries to Steadily Push Forward Industrial Regulation and Constantly Improve Information Disclosure Quality
date: 2015-12-29
In order to further regulate the information disclosure behaviors of listed companies engaged in livestock breeding and aquaculture, solid mineral resources and real estate business, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) recently formulated and promulgated Shenzhen Stock Exchange Industry Information Disclosure Guideline No.1 - Livestock Breeding and Aquaculture Business Related Listed Companies (“No.1 Guideline”), Shenzhen Stock Exchange Industry Information Disclosure Guideline No.2 - Solid Mineral Resources Business Related Listed Companies (“No.2 Guideline”) and Shenzhen Stock Exchange Industry Information Disclosure Guideline No.3 – Real Estate Business Related Listed Companies (“No.3 Guideline”).   Information disclosure is the basic system for building open and transparent capital market, standardizing behaviors of market main bodies and protecting investors’ legal rights and interests. With the development of capital market, the traditional and generally applicable information disclosure rules have been difficult to adapt to different information disclosure requirements for listed companies of different industries. In recent years, SZSE has earnestly implemented the regulation transformation deployment of China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”), focused on information disclosure and taken investors demands as orientation, so as to steadily push forward industrial regulation and make all efforts to improve the effectiveness and pertinence of information disclosure of listed companies. Now the overall proportion of industrial regulation companies listed in SZSE has reached 55%, SZSE main board listed companies have been overall implemented the industrial regulation since August 24, 2015, SME board and ChiNext board listed companies are also actively promoting the overall industrial regulation. Combining with the practical experience of industrial regulation, SZSE has formulated, revised and promulgated seven industry information disclosure guidelines for ChiNext board listed companies that are engaged in radio, film and television, pharmaceutical and biological products, internet game and other business since the beginning of this year. The promulgation of information disclosure guidelines for livestock breeding and aquaculture, solid mineral resources and real estate industries is an important measure of SZSE to further consolidate the self-discipline regulation system of multi-level capital market, improve information disclosure quality of listed companies and release the vitality of market main bodies.   As introduced by related officer of SZSE, the above guidelines have regulated the information disclosure obligations that should be fulfilled by listed companies from many aspects such as regular reports and interim reports, value and risk, financial information and non-financial information, so as to guide listed companies to fully disclose the macro economic trends and policies with influence on industrial development, business modes, industry positions, business situation, existing risks and other relevant information. Meanwhile, combining with the actual situation and investors demands of different industries, the guidelines have focused on different contents required for disclosure.        Livestock breeding and aquaculture industry is featured by distinctly different operation and breeding mode, highly difficult biological assets inventory and great industry cyclical fluctuation, No.1 Guideline has made clear requirements for these characteristics. Firstly, as for different connotation and risks for different operation and breeding modes, it requires listed companies to disclose the detailed contents, special risks and change situation of operation and breeding modes; secondly, as for highly difficult biological assets inventory for breeding industry and other characteristics with more concerns from investors, it requires listed companies to disclose the specific inventory scheme and cost carrying-forward method in their annual report and semi-annual report respectively; thirdly, as for the distinct price cyclical fluctuation for terminal products of breeding industry and great business performance fluctuation, it requires listed companies to disclose the sales volume and sales revenue on the monthly basis.      As for solid mineral resources business related listed companies, whether they can conduct normal business depends on their possession of relevant mining exploration and development qualification and access conditions, which constitutes significant impacts on their company value, No.2 Guideline has refined the disclosure requirements for the above information, and required listed companies to offer full risk warning as well as reinforced the audit responsibility of lawyers and other intermediary institutions for relevant business. Moreover, it also encourages listed companies to fully disclose other information that isn’t clearly required to disclose but has significant influence on investors’ investment decisions.   Real estate industry is greatly affected by national regulation and control policies and financial environment, and it has distinct regional characteristics and significant industry characteristics in accounting policies. Therefore, on one hand, No.3 Guideline requires listed companies to fully disclose the industry-related macro-economic situation and financial taxation policies, industry development situation of the city where their main business is located, their competitive advantages, market positions, future development strategies and operation plans, etc., and encourages them to disclose the operational data reflecting the characteristics of real estate industry on the monthly basis; on the other hand, it requires listed companies to fully disclose specific accounting policies on revenue recognition, inventories, investment real estate and others that are related with the characteristics of real estate industry.   In addition to strengthening information disclosure obligations, SZSE has also adjusted the applicability of rules for industry companies based on the practical experience of industrial regulation and principles of combining decentralization with administration and combining severity with leniency, so as to fully release the vitality of market main bodies with risks under control. For examples, according to the business characteristics of real estate companies, the requirements for disclosure and examination on guarantee of listed companies for controlled subsidiaries is loosened; on the premise of meeting specific situation, the guarantee of listed companies for controlled subsidiaries may be submitted to shareholders’ general meetings for examination in the form of guarantee quota, the guarantee amounts for different guaranteed objects may be adjusted within the total guarantee quota in the subsequent implementation, which will improve the operating efficiency of listed companies. Moreover, it also refines the information disclosure requirements for land reserves, project development progress and financing situation of real estate companies, which fully reflects the industrial characteristics.   It’s known that the formulation process of the above information disclosure guidelines have fully reflected the principles of democracy and publicity. After the completion of first draft, SZSE immediately solicited comments and suggestions from all listed companies, and carried out face-to-face communication with them by the way of symposium, etc.. After serious collation and study, many opinions from listed companies have been included into the final draft.     Related officer of SZSE said, SZSE would continue to push forward industrial regulation, study on the industry characteristics, sum up regulation experience, so as to constantly improve the effectiveness and pertinence of information disclosure of listed companies through rules construction and active guidance, and further promote the healthy development of SZSE multi-level capital market.

Sample Adjustment of SZSE Component Index, SZSE SME Index and SZSE ChiNext Index
date: 2015-12-14
Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. announced recently to make regular adjustment, in line with the indices compiling rules, to the sample stocks for SZSE series indices, which include SZSE Component Index, SZSE SME Index, SZSE ChiNext Index and SZSE 100 Index. Meanwhile, Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. announced to make regular adjustment to the sample stocks for CNI 100 Index and other cross-market indices. The adjustments will come into effect as of the first trading day of January in 2016.   49 stocks will be adjusted to the sample stocks of SZSE Component Index, with Wanda, Lens Technology, etc. to be swapped in as sample stock, whereas CNHTC-JNTC and Zoneco, etc. to be swapped out of sample stock; 10 stocks will be adjusted to the sample stocks of SZSE SME Index, with Wanda, Wanma Co., Ltd., etc. to be swapped in, whereas Siyuan Electric, Your-mart, etc. to be swapped out; 7 stocks will be adjusted to the sample stocks of SZSE ChiNext Index, with Xinjiang Machinery, Hoperun Software, etc. to be swapped in, whereas Hi-target, Feitian, etc. to be swapped out.   The market representativeness of SZSE Component Index will be further enhanced after the adjustment, with market coverage of about 57%. From the perspective of market distribution, 183 samples stocks (weighing 44%) are listed on the Main board, 219 sample stocks (weighing 38%) are listed on the SME board and 98 sample stocks (weighing 18%) are listed on the ChiNext board, which is much closer to actual distribution of Shenzhen market. Meanwhile, the characteristics of centering on new technical enterprises of core indices in the Shenzhen market will be further reinforced after the adjustment, SZSE Component Index, SZSE SME Index and SZSE ChiNext Index, the three major benchmark indices that represent the multi-level market structure of Shenzhen market, all take the information technology industry as the heaviest-weighted industry, with the weight of 22%, 29% and 45% respectively.       More specific material on the Index can be found on the website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and the website of CNINDEX (www.cnindex.com.cn).

SZSE Launched an Annual Online Law Publicity Activity
date: 2015-12-14
According to the general plan of China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) on further implementing credit construction of capital market and reinforcing law publicity, centering on the theme of “reinforcing the market credit construction and consolidating system base”, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) recently held an annual online law publicity activity through the “Investors Online Exchange Platform” of Panorama Network (www.p5w.net).   Related officer of SZSE said, investment and financing activities of capital market are established on the base of high-degree integrity, and credit environment could not be optimized without the enhancement of legal compliance consciousness, the law publicity activity aims to popularize securities laws and regulations, business rules of SZSE and other legal knowledge, so as to enhance the cognition, understanding and implementation level of market participants on relevant securities laws and regulations and consolidating the credit basis for stable market development.   According to the officer, in order to further optimize market credit environment, based on the front-line regulatory responsibilities, SZSE has overall implemented Information Disclosure Express Practice to enhance the credit operation and responsibility consciousness of listed companies and other market participants since the beginning of this year. Meanwhile, in order to strengthening the credit constraint, SZSE has actively searched and used credit information in daily regulation and disciplinary sanction, etc., and given full play to the functions of credit records on recording, serving and promoting regulation work. Moreover, SZSE has resolutely fought against illegal and dishonesty behaviors, and continued to improve self-discipline regulatory measures and disciplinary sanction measures, and played an active role of deterrence and warning.   It is reported that SZSE has carried out online law publicity activities since 2005, and during the activity, the law dissemination and education team of SZSE answered more than 100 hot questions from investors, listed companies, securities companies and other market participants, which covers the fields including information disclosure, standardized operation and securities trading, etc.  

Relevant regulations of Shanghai Stock Exchange, Shenzhen Stock Exchange and China Financial Futures Exchange on Circuit Breakers
date: 2015-12-14
With the approval of China Securities Regulatory Commission, Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and China Financial Futures Exchange (CFFE) issued the relevant regulations on circuit breakers on December 4, 2015, which will be effective as of January 1, 2016. The introduction of the circuit breaker mechanism is an important institutional arrangement to further enhance the trading mechanisms of China securities and futures markets, maintain market order, protect investors’ interests and promote the long-term, steady and sound development of the capital market.     The circuit breaker mechanism was launched after solicitation of public opinions on a draft plan. From September 7 to 21, 2015, the SZSE, the SSE and the CFFEX solicited public opinions on draft circuit breaker regulations, which aroused intense attention from market participants who proposed 4861 opinions and suggestions. Generally, all the market participants agreed with the overall plan. After earnest study of all the opinions and suggestions, the three exchanges accepted those on focal issues and shelved some others. Specific explanations are as follows:   1. Circuit breaker durations. The solicitation reveals that investors generally think that the 30-minute halt is too long. In order to minimize impact on market liquidity while allowing the circuit breaker mechanism plays its role, the three exchanges reduced the 30-minute duration for triggering the 5% threshold to 15 minutes while retaining the arrangement of halting trading to the market close after triggering the 5% threshold during the market close session or after triggering the 7% threshold at any time of the whole day. The main considerations are: firstly, more often than not, domestic markets experience dramatic volatility during the market close session and the arrangement of halting trading to the market close for triggering the 5% threshold after 14:45 will help guard against risk of unusual market movement during the market close session. Secondly, as a key index product that reflects the overall market movement of Shanghai and Shenzhen markets, CSI 300 Index features good representation and anti-manipulation and a 7% rise or fall in CSI 300 Index often implies drastic market volatility and extreme systemic risk. Therefore, the market needs a cooling-off period to avert panic selling and sharp market fluctuations. Many overseas markets such as the US, Korea and India have similar arrangement of halting trading till the market closes after triggering the highest level threshold in order to prevent systemic risk.   2. Connection with the existing daily price limit system. Some market participants said that, given that the existing daily price up/down limit system is to be retained, there is no need for introducing circuit breakers. They suggested relaxing or scraping the daily price limit system for individual stocks and introducing circuit breakers for individual stocks. Our study shows that the circuit breaker mechanism and the daily price limit system are similar in nature as they are both short-term price stabilization measures. However, they are somewhat different in the objects they apply to as well as in working principle. The daily price limit system sets a limit on the price movement of individual securities and is designed to avoid sharp price fluctuation of individual securities. Under the daily price limit system, securities can still be traded at the daily price limit. In contrast, the circuit breaker mechanism halts trading of the whole market for a period of time when the movement of the market benchmark index exceeds a specified limit to avoid over-reaction of the market. When the relevant threshold is triggered, all the securities within the circuit breaker scope will be halted temporarily during the circuit breaking period. This year’s unusual market volatility indicates that the daily price limit system alone is unable to stabilize the market under extreme circumstances and that it is highly necessary to introduce the circuit breaker mechanism. In addition, as the daily price limit system is a basic institutional arrangement in China securities market, relaxing or scraping the system is improbable in the short run as that will have effect on the existing institutional arrangement such as the settlement risk management system, risk controls in leverage business, and market surveillance indicators and will also have significant effect on investors’ trading practices. In the next step, the three exchanges will continue to enhance the relevant trading mechanism by taking into account the implementation results of the circuit breaker mechanism and striking a balance between the reform momentum and pace and the market acceptability so as to promote the steady and sound development of the capital market.    3. Thresholds. Some market participants said that the existing thresholds are too low and may be triggered frequently and that the interval between the two thresholds is too narrow and thus may be triggered consecutively. They suggested setting only one threshold or raising the threshold to 6% to 8% or considering expanding the gap between the existing thresholds. In our opinion, given that the existing 10% daily price up/down limit is to remain, we have limited options for circuit breaker thresholds. The current two thresholds of 5% and 7% are put forward by the three exchanges on the basis of their analysis of the historic data over the past 11 years. Of the two thresholds, the first threshold of 5% can meet both the needs of providing a cooling-off period and maintaining normal trading. Though the second threshold of 7% is seldom triggered, it should also be considered as major abnormal situations so as to stem continued extreme market movements such as drastic advances and declines.   4. Selection of benchmark index. Some market participants said that CSI 300 Index does not reflect the price movement of small- and mid-cap stocks. Often, the circuit breakers benchmark index selects highly representative, influential and anti-manipulative index. CSI 300 Index has all such features. Compared to a single-market index, CSI 300 Index can better reflect the overall movement of the A-share market. Moreover, its coverage of market capitalization and the number and sizes of the products tracking the index are all high compared with other indices.   5. Two-way circuit breakers. Some market participants suggested setting a circuit breaker only for market price declines. In our opinion, the two-way circuit breaker is more conducive to curbing over-trading and controlling market volatility. As the domestic market is dominated by retail investors, sharp two-way price fluctuations have led to not only slumps in panic selling but also precipitous rises, including short-term dramatic rises caused by accidents. Thus, when the market encounters steep rises, the circuit breaker mechanism is needed to stabilize the market sentiment, prevent the investors’ over-reaction to market rises and give more time for the investors to further determine whether the current prices are reasonable or not.   Another issue that must be clarified is that the specific business arrangement of the three exchanges in implementing the circuit breaker mechanism is slightly different. Investors are required to pay attention to the business Q&As and relevant announcements released by the exchanges.

SZSE Signs a Cooperation Agreement with Hubei Provincial People’s Government to Support Its Economic and Financial Development
date: 2015-12-10
On December 9, 2015, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) and Hubei Provincial People’s Government entered into a strategic cooperation agreement in Shenzhen. Both parties will give play to their own advantages to promote Hubei enterprises to be better and stronger through capital market, so as to promote the economic transformation and upgrading and regional financial development in Hubei province.   According to the agreement, both parties will jointly promote Hubei enterprises to be listed on Main board, SME board and GEM board of SZSE; both parties will strengthen cooperation in supervision of listed companies, urge and guide Hubei companies listed on SZSE to strengthen information disclosure, improve governance structure and regulate corporate operation, and jointly study on solving major risk problems, so as to actually maintain the safe and stable operation of the capital market; both parties will strengthen the development of fixed income products, such as local government bonds, corporate bonds and asset-backed securities, and reinforce the cooperation in risk control and disposal; both parties will support the regional equity exchange market construction, and promote the scientific, technical and financial reform and innovation in Wuhan city circle; and both parties will strengthen the capital market investor education and publicity, so as to boost the talent training and exchange.

The First Preferred Stock of SZSE Gets Listed Successfully
date: 2015-12-9
On December 9, 2015, 2015 Private Placement Preferred Stock of Bank of Ningbo Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “Bank of Ningbo Preferred 01”) is formally listed on Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”), which is the first preferred stock successfully listing on SZSE since the promulgation of the Guiding Opinions on Implementation of Preferred Stock Pilot by the State Council.   Bank of Ningbo Co., Ltd. started to plan for listing of the preferred stock in 2014, and gained written reply from China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) and China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) on May 29, 2015 and October 27, 2015 respectively, then it efficiently promoted relevant work for listing of the preferred stock, and finally completed the issuance, payment and listing on November 11, 2015, November 16, 2015 and December 9, 2015 respectively. It has successfully realized a breakthrough in capital tools innovation, and become the first bank of successful issuance of preferred stocks in domestic urban commercial banks.   The issuing volume of the Bank of Ningbo Preferred 01 is RMB 4.85 billion with AAA and AA ratings for the issuer and the preferred stock respectively. CITIC Securities is its lead underwriter, and 13 institutions have participated in the subscription. Its nominal dividend rate for the first interest period is 4.6%, with relevant low financing cost, which is good for the Company to supplement capital and alleviate the financing pressure.   Preferred stocks are featured by high yield, stable return and small risk, etc., it is important for financing innovation of commercial banks and multi-level capital market construction. Related officials of SZSE said, SZSE would continue to optimize the business processes for preferred stocks, constantly improve the service quality and efficiency, greatly support listed companies to use preferred stocks in financing innovation, and make all efforts to provide flexible financing tools and diversified investment channels for relevant market participants.

SZSE Promulgates the Compilation of Rules Governing GEM Board Listed Companies and Information Disclosure Practical Manual for Board Secretaries of GEM Board Listed Companies
date: 2015-12-9
In order to facilitate directors, supervisors and senior executives of GEM board listed companies to systematically study and master information disclosure business rules and knowledge for GEM board listed companies, and further improve the business level and work quality of board secretaries, SZSE recently promulgated the Compilation of Rules Governing GEM Board Listed Companies (hereinafter referred to as “Compilation of Rules”) and Information Disclosure Practical Manual for Board Secretaries of GEM Board Listed Companies (hereinafter referred to as “Manual for Board Secretaries”).   Effective information disclosure is not only the premise for capital market to display the function of resource allocation, but also the important basis for investors to know, analyze and judge company value as well as make investment decisions. Since the establishment of GEM board, SZSE has always implemented the regulation concept centered on information disclosure, and made all efforts to provide better information disclosure service for investors. In order to better guide the information disclosure work of GEM board listed companies and further improve the information disclosure quality, SZSE organized to formulate the Compilation of Rules and Manual for Board Secretaries.   The Compilation of Rules collects 54 business rules not stipulated in the Rules Governing Listing of Stocks on GEM Board and Guidelines on Standard Operation of GEM Board Listed Companies, including special provisions, guidelines, notices, memorandum and business guides for GEM board listed companies, covering many aspects such as information disclosure, corporate governance, sponsorship business, equity changes, mergers and acquisitions and refinancing. Through collecting current rules, it facilitates listed companies to search and use the rules in their routine work, and aims to become a reference book for listed companies to get familiar with and study relevant rules.   On the basis of learning the Information Disclosure Practical Manual for Board Secretaries of Main Board and SME Board Listed Companies, integrating with the characteristics, rules and regulations, information disclosure situation and regulation practices of GEM board listed companies, the Manual for Board Secretaries starts from problems faced by listed companies in their work, takes the form of “ask and answer”, focuses on introducing the key points and procedures for board secretaries in handling specific business, and selects relevant typical cases of GEM board to make detailed analysis on business difficulties and risks. It has distinctive features of GEM board, emphasizes the differentiated regulatory requirements for GEM board listed companies, such as emphasizing the characteristics of refinancing rules for GEM board listed companies, clearly defining the guidelines and information disclosure requirements for industries such as film and television, medicine, PV, energy conservation and environmental protection and Internet, highlighting special provisions on pre-disclosure of majority shareholders and reduction of shareholding of directors, supervisors and senior executives, meanwhile, it makes stipulations on market value management and trading suspension and resumption system by integrating with the new market situation. It has 12 chapters in total, including 442 questions and answers and 81 cases, covering all aspects of information disclosure, aiming to become a practical reference book for board secretaries of GEM board listed companies to do well information disclosure affairs.   SZSE has always actively promoted the reform and development of GEM board, closely paid attention to new market situation and problems, strived to explore the differentiated regulatory systems and measures of GEM board, so as to promote market participants to perform their own duties. According to the requirements for actively cultivating open, transparent and healthy capital market, SZSE will continue to deepen the reform of GEM board, constantly enhance the core market service capability and regulatory transparency, so as to make all efforts to serve the capital market and overall national development strategies.

SSE and SZSE Increase Margin Ratio for Securities Margin Trading
date: 2015-11-16
In order to further strengthen the risk management for securities margin trading and promote its long-term stable development, as approved by China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”), Shanghai Stock Exchange (“SSE”) and Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) recently amended the Implementation Rules for Securities Margin Trading (“Implementation Rules”), and increased the lowest margin ratio for securities margin trading from 50 percents to 100 percents. The adjustment will be implemented from 23 November, 2015. Margin ratio for securities margin trading refers to the ratio of margin paid by investors in securities margin trading and margin trading amount. It decides the leverage ratio of securities margin trading. For example, if it is 50 percents, customers may borrow at most RMB2 million from securities companies to buy securities with the margin of RMB1 million, and the leverage ratio of the trading is two. However, if it increases to 100 percents, customers may borrow at most RMB1 million from securities companies to buy securities with the margin of RMB1 million, and the leverage ratio of the trading is one. As the market turns around recently, financing scale and turnover of stock trading rapidly rise again, some customers tend to purchase rising stocks, and there is a large amount of high-risk stocks with high rise rate or PE ratio bought in through financing. In order to actually protect investors’ legal rights and prevent systematic risks, it’s necessary to implement countercyclical adjustment, increase margin ratio for securities margin trading and properly decrease leverage level, so as to promote the sustained and healthy development of the market. The adjustment is only applicable to new securities margin trading contracts, those securities margin trading contracts established before the implementation of adjusted Implementation Rules are continuing to be implemented according to relevant regulations before the adjustment. Investors needn’t add any margin or close any position for the adjustment, the existing securities margin trading contracts may be renewed according to relevant regulations and contractual stipulations.  

SZSE Promulgates and Implements Public Censure Standards for Main Board Listed Companies
date: 2015-11-5
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) recently promulgated and implemented Public Censure Standards for Main Board Listed Companies (hereinafter referred to as “Main Board Public Censure Standards”), which clearly defines the criterion of determining public censure for Main Board listed companies. So far, SZSE’s public censure standards for Main Board, SME and GEM listed companies have been completely published and implemented, which are important measures of SZSE to further perfect multi-level self-discipline mechanism and improve self-discipline regulatory transparency. Main Board Public Censure Standards is divided into four chapters, such as general provisions, information disclosure violation, standard operation violation and supplementary provisions, with a total of 18 articles. It’s the same with SME and GEM Board in terms of application scope, which is only applicable to implement public censure for SZSE Main Board listed companies but not public criticism for Main Board listed companies or disciplinary sanctions for shareholders, actual controllers, directors, supervisors and senior executives, etc.. Related officials of SZSE said, Main Board Public Censure Standards is featured as follows: firstly, it focuses on key regulatory points, through analyzing violation cases over the past years, listed companies are found to mainly have violations in information disclosure regarding major transactions, connected transaction, funds occupation and illegal guarantee, etc., and it clearly defines public censure standards for the above key violations. Secondly, it quantizes board difference, based on full reference of SME and GEM public censure standards, it fully considers board difference and integrates scales and characteristics of Main Board listed companies, so as to clearly define partial absolute amounts for triggering violations and add specific standards for connected transaction information disclosure violations. Thirdly, it implements delisting system reform, it includes, fraudulent issuance, major information disclosure violation and other circumstances of failure in disclosing major events according to relevant regulations that causes suspension or termination of listing, into the public censure scope. Fourthly, it clearly defines review mechanism, it clearly defines that listed companies may apply for review within 15 work days after receiving the public censure decision from SZSE according to relevant regulations, so as to ensure the fairness and justice of disciplinary sanctions. It’s understood that the Main Board Public Censure Standards is formulated by following the principles of transparency and open provisions establishment, soliciting opinions from all SZSE Main Board listed companies through online business zone, and adopting many reasonable opinions after careful analysis and research. Related officials of SZSE said, SZSE has made many efforts to construct a simple, efficient, open and multi-level self-discipline regulation system and improve regulatory transparency through multiple channels, so as to realize open rules, progress and results. In the future, SZSE will continue to be oriented by investors demand, further perfect rules and systems, explore to establish a new mechanism for regulation during and after the trading process, and improve the level of legalized regulation, so as to actually perform its regulation duties according to relevant rules and laws.

SZSE Plans to Promulgate Memorandum for Trading Suspension and Resumption Business of Listed Companies to Regulate Trading Suspension and Resumption of Listed Companies and Actually Protect Investors’ Legal Rights
date: 2015-11-2
In order to further regulate trading suspension and resumption business of listed companies, maintain market efficiency and protect investors’ legal rights, such as trading right and right to know, based on regulatory practice summarization and new situations occurred in the market, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) has formulated Memorandum for Trading Suspension and Resumption Business of Listed Companies and widely solicited opinions from listed companies through online business zone and symposium, etc., and will promulgate it in the near future.   Related officials of SZSE said, the formulation of Memorandum for Trading Suspension and Resumption Business of Listed Companies is a result of full mobilization of initiatives of market participants, joint research, communication and negotiation, and also an important measure for stabilizing, repairing and constructing the stock market. During the opinions solicitation, 133 listed companies raised feedback opinions, SZSE discussed them one by one and fully accepted reasonable amendment suggestions, including arrangement for trading suspended companies during the transition period, trading suspension period of private placement shares, deliberation procedures for delayed trading resumption and investor presentation, etc..   Related officials of SZSE pointed out, the formulation of the Memorandum adheres to the philosophy of centering on information disclosure, strengthening responsibility and accountability and reinforcing regulation during and after the trading process, and also clearly defines the responsibilities and obligations of listed companies on protection of investors’ trading right and right to know. The Memorandum requires listed companies to do well information confidentiality and staged disclosure work whiling planning major events, so as to maintain the continuity of market transactions and prudently judge the suspension time. Considering that listed companies may have difficulties in staged and timely disclosure of planned events and need apply for trading suspension in practice, the Memorandum requires that listed companies should take effective measures to avoid long suspension period and shouldn’t abuse trading suspension to damage investors’ trading right and right to know, and stipulates corresponding suspension period and standards for common suspension matters. Meanwhile, as for violation of the Memorandum, abuse of trading suspension and unseasonable delay of resumption time, the Memorandum clearly defines that SZSE may explain related situations to the market by announcements and require the listed companies to resume stock trading.   It’s reported that there are nearly 40 listed companies under long-term trading suspension, which have submitted proposals on reviewing continued suspension for planning relevant events to their Shareholders’ General Meeting, such proposals have clearly defined contents of the planned events, expected resumption time and work plan for the next step, etc..

Listing of “Jingdong IOU” Special Plan on SZSE Witnesses the Support of Asset Securitization for “Internet Plus” Once Again
date: 2015-10-29
On 28 October, 2015, “Jingdong IOU Accounts Receivable Creditor’s Right Asset-backed Special Plan” (hereinafter referred to as “Jingdong IOU Special Plan”), managed by Huatai Securities (Shanghai) Asset Management Co., Ltd., was successfully listed on Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”).   Jingdong IOU Special Plan plans to raise a fund scale of RMB800 million, with the duration of 24 months. Prior, subprime and subordinated asset-backed securities account for 75%, 15% and 10% respectively. Prior and subprime asset-backed securities are rated as AAA and AA- respectively, with the issuing interest rates of 5.1% and 7.3% respectively.   The underlying assets of Jingdong IOU Special Plan are the accounts receivables arising from credit sales of Beijing Jingdong Century Trading Co., Ltd. to eligible users on JD.com in the form of “IOU”. According to such sales contract, originators distribute and deliver goods to their users, and users will pay corresponding consideration to the originators within the agreed period. Jingdong IOU Special Plan is one of the first-batch asset securitized products listed on SZSE with the underlying asset of Internet accounts receivable after the filing system of asset securitization business, moreover, it’s another phased result that uses the innovative service of asset securitized products to support financial innovation after Alibaba Microcredit and CFPA Mircofinance series products.   On 4 July, 2015, the State Council issued the guiding opinions on active promotion of “Internet Plus” actions, which explicitly encourage to constantly deepen the integration of e-commerce with other industries, popularize network production, circulation and consumption, promote e-commerce application and innovation, and actively expand the depth and width of the Internet financial service innovation. “Jingdong IOU”, as a consumer finance business for individual consumers, enables users to enjoy the credit purchase service of “consume first and pay later” while shopping online, which is an innovative business involving the integration of e-commerce and Internet financial sector.   In terms of product design and underlying assets management, Jingdong IOU Special Plan effectively uses the big data system from multiple sources, it’s based on the big data of sellers on JD.com and supplemented by all valid data of Jingdong system to make credit-evaluation data source diversified and multi-layered, so as to implement the screening and subsequent management of eligible underlying assets. It has obvious advantages in efficiency and risk control, and has effectively implemented the requirements of the Action Outline of the State Council for Big Data Promotion regarding using big data to stimulate business model innovation, create new business formats, promote innovative and value-added services and enhance enterprise core values. In the actual business, the non-performing assets ratio of Jingdong IOU is less than 1%, which shows strong risk control ability.   Under current economic new normal, the issuing and listing of Jingdong IOU Special Plan gives Internet innovation into full play, which has significant social influence and demonstration effect. SZSE will continue to keep close communication with all parties, promote asset securitization business innovation, guide social capital to invest in key support fields and other fields related with the national economy and the people’s livelihood, pay attention to standard disclosure of product operation situation, and provide innovative capital services for real economy under the condition of controllable risk.

Improving Investor Services by Optimizing Information Display Methods and Highlighting Key Announcements
date: 2015-10-20
In recent years, in order to better protect the right to know of small and medium investors, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) has made a lot of exploration on information disclosure system to meet investors' needs, such as overall promotion of Information Disclosure Express Practice and revision and upgrade of “Easy IR”, etc.. All these measures have promoted the fair and voluntary information disclosure of listed companies and related parties, and also facilitate the interaction between investors and listed companies. Moreover, SZSE has paid special attention to improve investors' user experience to facilitate their viewing and reading during the continuous perfection of information disclosure system and methods. However, there're so many announcements published by listed companies, it's difficult for investors to search information quickly and directly. In order to solve the problem and facilitate investors to gain relevant information, SZSE has officially launched the brief display function for information disclosure of listed companies together with the website of www.cninfo.com.cn on 18 October, 2015.   The adjustment mainly includes the following three terms: firstly, key announcements are highlighted, those announcements closely related with decision-making of investors are preferred shown to facilitate investors to timely know related investment information. Under the existing information disclosure system and quantity and contents of announcements disclosed by listed companies, announcements that are expected to be closely related with decision-making of investors will be picked up before disclosure and preferred shown on the homepage of www.cninfo.com.cn by folding pattern, meanwhile, investors can rapidly search out all announcements. Secondly, the homepage of the latest website of www.cninfo.com.cn is adjusted in terms of column, structure and user interface, etc., so as to simplify the display method of disclosed announcements. Thirdly, the screening and searching functions of announcements are perfected to facilitate investors to rapidly locate the required information. Investors may search announcements of any listed company by its company abbreviation, stock code, industry, announcement date, key words of announcement title or announcement type, etc..   The brief display function for information disclosure of listed companies is an innovative measure for SZSE to improve investor services. SZSE will continue to perfect it according to its actual operation situation and investors' opinions, so as to facilitate investors to timely gain effective information related with investment. In the future, SZSE will continue to make exploration and innovation to provide information customized services for investors and realize the mutual user recognition of www.cninfo.com.cn and Easy IR, so as to provide more convenient information channels to investors.  

SZSE Launches “Easy IR” Company-end APP
date: 2015-9-25
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) has officially launched a mobile APP for “Easy IR” company end-users. With this mobile APP, listed companies can answer the questions raised by investor at any time, making communication “zero-distance” and “zero-timelag”. The “Easy IR” APP launched by SZSE puts the State Council’s requirement of “safeguarding the rights to know of medium and small investors” into practice. It is expected that it will draw the communication between listed companies and investors onto the “fast lane”.   Developed by SZSE, “Easy IR” is an Internet-based interactive investor relations service provided to all market players free of charge. The website version software was born in 2010 for the purpose of convenient, rapid and group communication between listed companies and investors. The number of questions raised by investors has been increasing steadily for the five years, especially when 2014 the investor-end APP was born. According to statistics, the questions on “Easy IR” totaled 1.461 million as of September 22 2015.   In order to increase the replying efficiency of listed companies and fulfill the continuous communication requirements of two sides, SZSE continued to optimize the “Easy IR” platform by visiting and collecting opinions from all parties and organizing listed companies to test its performance. Finally on August 2015, the company-end APP for “Easy IR” was finished and launched. The APP makes mobile officing possible for listed companies.   In the future, SZSE will continue to deepen the communication function of “Easy IR” based on information disclosure and to provide investors with quality services.

The First Public Housing Construction Asset-backed Securities Product Founded under Record-filing System Gets Listed
date: 2015-9-25
Recently, an Asset-backed Special Plan of Yangzhou Public Housing Trust Beneficiary Rights (hereinafter referred to as “Yangzhou Public Housing Special Plan”) was founded and got listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) on September 23. Huatai Securities (Shanghai) Asset Management Co., Ltd. is its manager and Huatai United Securities Co., Ltd. is its financial adviser.   The Yangzhou Public Housing Special Plan plans to raise funds of RMB 1.05 billion with 5-year duration. The priority class, rated AA+, will be issued in three tranches. The issuing interest rates for the 3-year to 5-year term priority class will be at the range of 5.29-6.50%.   Shantytown renovation is a significant project for people’s livelihood and development. On July 4 2013, the State Council issued Opinions on Accelerating the Shantytown Renovation Work, encouraging and guiding private capitals to participate in shantytown renovation by means of direct or indirect investment, equity participation, entrusted construction, etc. On July 21 2014, the State Council issued a Notice of Further Accelerating the Shantytown Renovation Work, supporting financial institutions to renovate their products and services and establish a multi-layered and diversified system for the funding needs in shantytown renovation.   Since the Record-filing System replacing Administrative Approval System and being adopted by asset-backed securities business in November 2014, the issuing scale and efficiency has been greatly increased. The Yangzhou Public Housing Special Plan is the first shantytown renovation asset-backed securities product issued under the record-filing system. It helps to provide financing channels for shantytown renovation in the manner of law compliance, convenient operation, cost-effective and stable sources.   The Yangzhou Public Housing Special Plan has an innovative idea to integrate the irregular future income into standardized underlying assets of trust beneficiary rights. Its successful issuance and listing can not only alleviate the funding pressure on enterprises, reduce financial cost, but also can continue to input the raised funds into the public housing construction projects, supporting the healthy development of cities and the peaceful livelihood of the people.   SZSE will, as always, keep close communication with all parties, promote the innovation in asset securitization. At the same time SZSE will also continue to strengthen its supports on shantytown renovation, agriculture, and infrastructure construction.

SZSE Holds a “Shenzhen Enterprises Day” Activity for Foreign Investors
date: 2015-9-16
On September 10 2015, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) and Goldman Sachs & Co jointly organized a “Shenzhen Enterprises Day” activity in Shenzhen. Over 60 domestic and foreign investment institutions from the U.S., the U.K., Australia, Norway, Singapore, India and Hong Kong and senior executives from 18 Shenzhen market listed companies communicated and carried out research in the activity. Liu Huiqing, vice general manager with SZSE participated in and addressed the meeting.   Among the 18 participated companies, 6 of them are listed on the main board, 4 on the SME board and 8 on the ChiNext board. These companies are engaged in medicine, real estate, transportation, public environmental protection, food and beverage, TMT, financial services, automotive manufacturing and other industries. Investment institutions can choose the companies they interested in to have face to face communications with the senior executives, listen to their introduction on the company’s operations and prospects.   The foreign investment institutions participated in the activity not just limited to Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors (QFII), but also included other foreign professional investment institutions. Institutional types included asset management companies, mutual funds, hedge funds and investment banks, etc.   The active communications among foreign investors and listed companies were focused on the topics such as their market position in the industry and core competitiveness, and overseas market expansion and future growth prospects. Foreign investors also approached SZSE for information about characteristics of the Shenzhen markets and products and services provided for the linkage between foreign investors and listed companies. All the questions raised by investors were answered in detailed. The activity provided a two-way communication opportunity for Shenzhen-listed companies and investors at home and abroad and enhanced foreign investors’ understanding of Shenzhen-listed companies.   Seven sessions of Listed Companies’ Open House Program for Foreign Investors have been organized and held by SZSE before, covering investment institutions located in the U.S., Europe, Singapore, South Korea, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Under the background of China’s capital market gradually opening to the outside world, such interchange activities can improve foreign investors’ understanding of China’s capital market, and propel listed companies to perfect their international investor relations services. In the future, SZSE will continue to improve the services for foreign investors, promote capital market opening to the outside world, and boost the internationalization development of listed companies.

SZSE Releases an Information Disclosure Practical Manual for Board Secretaries
date: 2015-9-10
In order to improve the professional skills and working quality of board secretaries, enhance the transparency of regulation, comply with the requirements on board secretaries to return to their due responsibilities, and further increase the regulation efficiency and service level, an Information Disclosure Practical Manual for Board Secretaries (hereinafter referred to as “the Manual”) has recently finished by Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) in hands with some listed companies.   Taking information disclosure, the most important duty on board secretaries, as a breakthrough point, the Manual covers the following contents and over 400 problems in the 12 chapters: overview of information disclosure practice, securities offering and listing, provisional reports, periodic reports, trading and connected transactions, equity changes, major assets restructuring, equity  incentive, special treatments of trading suspension and resumption and delisting, corporate governance and standardized operations, investor relations management, SZSE services, etc.   It is learned that the Manual has the following four characteristics: first, the Manual focuses on solving the practical problems in information disclosure, in compliance with the concept of regulation transition; second, the Manual takes the form of “ask and answer”, easy to understand and look up; third, important issues and error-prone problems in daily work are demonstrated with typical cases and the risks thereof are specially warned; and four, the contents of the Manual are close to the actual practice and to the point, with over 20 experienced board secretaries participating in the writing.   In recent years, SZSE has been exerting itself to improve market service level and enhance regulatory transparency. After years of exploration and accumulation, a six-in-one public service platform has been established. The compilation of the Manual this time is a beneficial trial of SZSE to improve regulatory transparency, and is important achievements of its attempt to extend the service work. In the process of writing, SZSE further strengthened its communication and cooperation with board secretaries and other main market players, and accumulated experience and laid a foundation for future attempt to provide services in more flexible and varied forms.

SZSE Promulgates Information Disclosure Guidelines for Internet-related Companies Listed on ChiNext Board
date: 2015-9-7
In order to further regulate listed companies’ information disclosure behaviors and strengthen capital markets’ support for Internet companies, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) recently promulgated information disclosure guidelines for ChiNext-listed companies in three industries, i.e. Internet gaming, video and electronic commerce.   Currently, there are 16 companies engaged in online gaming, 3 companies engaged in Internet video and 3 companies engaged in e-commerce on the ChiNext board. Along with the deepening of Internet reform, more and more traditional industries have set foot in online business. Internet companies have distinct industrial features in aspects of business and profit models, which are difficult to be reflected under the existing information disclosure rules, thus failing to fulfill investors’ information demands. In a bid to propel Internet-related companies to better perform their information disclosure obligations, SZSE formulated the aforesaid guidelines on the basis of the commonness of Internet-related companies and the practical experiences on information disclosure.   The guidelines for the online gaming industry are featured with the following disclosure requirements: first, operational results of main games are required to disclose in the annual and semi-annual reports, including the number of users, active users and paying users, ARPU value, current accounts of top-up, etc.; second, marketing costs, inventory and intangible assets are required to disclose in the annual and semi-annual reports; and third, the disclosure requirements on the operation data when a new game goes online or substantial change occurs to main games are explicated.   The guidelines for the Internet video industry are featured with the following disclosure requirements: first, the general indicators applicable to the video industry are made clear, such as the average daily page views, number of daily unique visitors, average daily video views, average stay length of users, etc.; second, the general indicators are required to disclose respectively according to different types of terminals (e.g. PC client, web, mobile and other terminals); and third, the accounting treatment methods and amount changes for copyright and self-produced contents are required to disclose in the annual and semi-annual reports.   The guidelines for the e-commerce industry are featured with the following disclosure requirements: first, the general indicators reflecting the e-commerce industry are made clear, such as the SKU on the e-commerce platform (proprietary products and third-party sellers products), total orders, total transaction amount, average order amount, etc.; second, customers’ payment methods (e.g. pre-paid, post-paid, etc.) are required to disclose, and ways of revenue recognition should be explained; and third, the conditions of logistics business are required to disclose, including logistics business models (self-built or outsourcing), investment amount, operation efficiency (such as inventory turnover), etc..   In the process of drafting the information disclosure guidelines, SZSE has been sticking to the market-oriented principle. Upon the completion of the first draft, SZSE invited industrial analysts from fund companies and securities companies to participate in the formulation process, and at the same time solicited comments from relevant listed companies. The feedbacks were discussed, revised and replied one by one. In addition, questionnaires were also sent to some investors, making the guidelines more close to the actual situations of listed companies so as to meet the needs of investors.   The ChiNext board is featured with emerging industries. SZSE will continue to take the board as a breakthrough point, study the industrial characteristics and sum up the experiences of supervision. SZSE will continue to steadily push forward industrial regulations, constantly improve the pertinence and effectiveness of information disclosure, and provide better services to investors.

SZSE Signs a Cooperation Agreement with China Development Bank
date: 2015-9-2
On September 1, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) and China Development Bank (“CDB”) held a top group conference in Beijing and entered into a developmental financial cooperation agreement. Both parties will give play to market resources advantage and financing advantage, continue to promote financial innovation, enrich the layers and products of financial markets, prevent and dissolve financial risks, and propel the reform and development of financial markets together.   According to the agreement, both parties will serve the state’s innovation-driven strategy, promote the development of strategic emerging industries, and push forward the implementation of the “Made in China 2025”, “Internet Plus” and other action plans; both parties will enhance customer marketing ability, assist enterprises to be better and stronger, and support listed companies’ financing needs with leverage of capital markets and the rolling development of CDB’s “Letter of Investment, Loans, Bonds and Lease”; both parties will comprehensively promote product innovation, explore cooperation in fields of credit and enterprise asset securitization, and strengthen the cooperation in the issuance of financial debts; both parties will share resources and information, carry out cooperation in aspects of key enterprises database, business case analysis, etc., strengthen the construction of financial risk prevention, and safeguard the stability of financial markets; both parties will carry out planning cooperation and financial research, and organize joint business trainings; both parties will serve the state’s strategic implementation of “One Belt and One Road”, promote cooperation in aspects of international project review, overseas capital markets, etc., and expand the opening to the outside world and strengthen international exchanges.

Brief Analysis on Interim Reports Disclosed by Companies Listed on Shenzhen Markets
date: 2015-9-2
As of August 31 2015, all of the 1729 companies listed on the Shenzhen markets have disclosed their 2015 interim reports. For the first half of 2015, these companies have made an aggregate operating income of CNY3.072003 trillion and an aggregate net profit of CNY223.073 billion, a year-on-year growth of 5.1% and 23.5% respectively. From the point of operating income, 61.98% companies have realized a year-on-year growth and 78.24% companies have realized a quarter-on-quarter growth. From the point of net profit, 59.27% companies have realized a year-on-year growth and 71.58% companies have realized a quarter-on-quarter growth. Under the background of economy “new normal”, the performance of Shenzhen listed companies continues to improve, showing a steady increasing trend.   Represented by new technologies, new business types and new models, the ChiNext board has witnessed stable development. For the reporting period, all the 484 companies listed on the ChiNext board have made an aggregate operating income of CNY209.508 billion, up 29.40% which outperforms the average level of the Shenzhen markets; and an aggregate net profit of CNY22.808 billion, up 20.53%. The companies listed on the ChiNext board have been keeping a high gross profit margin since 2015, reaching 32.40%, which shows a strong characteristic of innovation. Emerging industries, such as Internet, television and entertainment, press and publications, ecological protection and high-end manufacturing, have made sound operating results, with operating income, sales profit and net profit growing by 35.59%, 25.5% and 27.41% respectively, which is significantly higher than the average level of the Shenzhen markets. 40 companies accomplished major assets restructuring with total scale of CNY 25.211 billion (including matching fund-raising), increasing by 110% and 38% respectively over the same period last year. Among them, 35 companies were engaged in industrial integration with M&A targets focusing on software and information technology, Internet, biological medicine, new energy vehicles, environmental control and other emerging areas. The role of ChiNext board to support innovation and start-up enterprises has been further highlighted.   From the viewpoint of the entire markets in Shenzhen, 10 out of 17 industries are reporting year-on-year growth and 16 are reporting quarter-on-quarter growth. Among them, industries of information technology, water, electricity and gas, wholesale and retail, culture and communications and medical and healthcare have made a year-on-year growth rate of over 20% on net profit. Besides, medicine, chemical raw materials and chemical products manufacturing and computer, communications, and other electronic equipment manufacturing are also growing significantly.   Moreover, there are quite a lot highlights in the operation of Shenzhen listed companies in the first half of the year. First, the cash flow situation has been further improved. Shenzhen listed companies, removing finance and real estate companies, are reporting cash flow per share of CNY0.14, up 14.31% which is mainly benefited from the increase in operating activities cash flow. Second, the efficiency of M&A has been increased dramatically. The 136 companies who accomplished major assets restructuring in 2014 have made a growth of 21.62% on operating income and 50.83% on net profit for the first half of 2015, much higher than the overall level. Third, interim dividends are intensified. Cash dividends for the first half of 2015 reached CNY4.26 billion, a year-on-year increase of 130.75%.   So far, 825 Shenzhen listed companies have made performance forecast for the first three quarters in 2015. 509 companies (accounting for 61.69%) are predicting positive and growth, 151 companies of them are predicting a year-on-year growth of over 50%. It is predictable that the performance results of Shenzhen listed companies for the first three quarters are improving steadily.

SZSE Amends Rules for Margin Trading and Securities Lending
date: 2015-8-4
In a bid to further strengthen its risk management over margin trading and securities lending business and safeguard the normal market order, Shenzhen Stock Exchange has recently announced to amend the Clause 2.13 in the SZSE Implementing Rules for Margin Trading and Securities Lending (2015 version).   It is learned that the aforesaid amendments are focused on the clauses in relation to the liabilities liquidation after investors sell out the borrowed securities. The amended rules clear that investors are allowed to repay the borrowed securities, directly or indirectly, on the next trading day upon selling out, preventing intraday swing trading and abnormal price fluctuation thus caused. It is believed that this adjustment is conducive to further regulating the margin trading and securities lending business without influence on its normal development and safeguarding the steady and health development of the markets.  

The First Batch of “Small Public Offering” Corporate Bonds Got Listed on SZSE
date: 2015-7-27
On July 23 2015, the 2015 corporate bonds (hereinafter referred to as “15 Hunan Gold 01” and “15 RiseSun 01”), which were issued by Hunan Gold Corporation Limited and RiseSun Real Estate Development Co., Ltd. via public offering to qualified investors including financial institutions and their products, ordinary institutions with qualification and natural persons with high net-worth, successfully got listed on Shenzhen Stock Exchange. Having undergone the pre-review of SZSE as authorized by CSRC and the approval of CSRC , “15 Hunan Gold 01” and “15 RiseSun 01” are the first batch of “small public offering” bonds issued after the promulgation of the Management Measures for Issuance and Trading of Corporate Bonds by CSRC.   The issuing volume of the 3-year term “15 Hunan Gold 01” is RMB 0.3 billion with AA+ ratings for both the issuer and the bonds. Guotai Junan is its lead underwriter, and 7 institutions or products have participated in the offline subscription. “15 Hunan Gold 01” is issuing at a coupon rate of 4.5%, much lower than the three-year benchmark lending rate of 5.25%. The issuing volume of the 5-year term “15 RiseSun 01” is RMB 1.8 billion with AA+ ratings for both the issuer and the bonds. J.P.Morgan is its lead underwriter, and 18 institutions or products have participated in the offline subscription. “15 RiseSun 01” is issuing at a coupon rate of 5.78%, lower than the company’s loan and financing cost and helping to stabilize its financial structure.   In order to support the implementation of the Management Measures for Issuance and Trading of Corporate Bonds, SZSE has made corresponding amendments to the Procedures for Pre-reviewing the Listing of Corporate Bonds, Listing Rules for Corporate Bonds and other supporting rules, so as to further streamline the pre-review and listing procedures and improve the information disclosure system. Under the new rules, the issuance applications of “small public offering” bonds will not directly go to CSRC, but will be pre-reviewed by the exchanges, and then CSRC will consider to simplifying the approval procedures on the basis of the pre-review opinions of the exchanges. The pre-review period within SZSE will be no longer than 20 business days in total. Meanwhile, in order to put the supervisory concept of “taking information disclosure as the core” into practice, SZSE will further enhance the transparency degree of the pre-review work of “small public offering” bonds by means of making the progressing schedule and documents public not only to the issuers and underwriters but also the public community.   For the next step, SZSE will continue to optimize the pre-review, issuance and listing of “small public offering” bonds, increase the quality and efficiency of services, endeavor to provide different types of financing subjects with differentiated, elaborative, oriented services, provide issuers with financing channels of high efficiency and low cost, and propel the orderly and healthy development of the SZSE bond market.  

SZSE Supports the Expansion of Securities Company Short-term Bonds and Promotes the Asset Securitization for Margin Trading and Securities Lending
date: 2015-7-14
China Securities Regulatory Commission has recently decided to expand the scope for the pilot program of short-term bonds from 20 to all securities companies, and allow them to issue and transfer the short-term bonds via Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges, Inter-agency Quotation and Service System for Private Placement Products and other trading places. Meanwhile, securities companies are allowed to launch asset-backed securities for margin trading and securities lending. Thus far, the financing channels for securities companies have been further broadened.   Since the pilot program of short-term bonds started in October 2014, all the 20 qualified securities companies have been playing an active part and making sound effects. As of June 30 2015, 9 issuers have obtained No Comment Letters (or Record-filing Notifications) with SZSE, accomplishing the issuance of 35 bonds raising funds of RMB 102.87 billion in total. The issuance of short-term bonds can not only help securities companies to solve their financing problems such as limited channels, single variety, high cost and seriously restricted credit line, but can also provide a market-based instrument and channel for securities companies’ short-term financing needs.   In order to facilitate the issuance of securities company short-term bonds in the entire industry, SZSE currently accepts electronic applications to confirm the transfer conditions and takes a green channel for the completeness verification. Once application materials are complete and qualified for non-public issuance, a No Comment Letter of Transfer Conditions can be obtained within two business days.   SZSE has always been supporting the innovation-based assets to launch asset-backed securities and has been expanding the scope thereof. Such assets include creditor’s rights of margin trading and securities lending, creditor’s rights of stock repurchase and pledge, commercial real estate properties, affordable housing construction, etc. With regard to the asset-backed securities for margin trading and securities lending, SZSE has previously carried out multiparty argumentation on definition and management of underlying assets and arrangements for collateral rights, and there have already been projects entering into the stage of listing conditions confirmation.   Since the implementation of record-filing system on asset-backed securities business, SZSE has constantly optimized the procedures for listing and transferring asset-backed securities and strengthened the supervision over their continuous information disclosure. On the one hand, SZSE raised the listing and transferring efficiency, optimized the review process, adopted the framework review method for multiphase products with the same trading structure, and enhanced the review efficiency for the re-issuance of mature projects; on the other hand, SZSE strengthened the requirements for continuous information disclosure and promulgated the SZSE No.1-3 Information Disclosure Format for Asset-backed Securities Business.   SZSE will continue to promote the expansion of short-term bonds and the implementation of the asset securitization for margin trading and securities lending, constantly improve the service quality and efficiency, and accelerate the development of exchange bond market.

Q & A on Cutting A-share Transaction and Settlement Fees
date: 2015-7-6
Q: In 2012, SSE, SZSE and SD&C significantly reduced the handling fees and transfer fees of A-share transactions. Are you considering cutting fees further in the near future? A: In order to further reduce the transaction cost for investors, SSE, SZSE and SD&C have decided to cut A-share transaction and settlement related fees. The handling fees charged by SSE and SZSE on A-share transactions will decrease by 30% from the current 0.0696‰ of traded value (two ways) to 0.0487‰ of traded value (two ways), with 0.00974‰ to be transferred to the Investor Protection Fund and remaining 0.03896‰ to be paid to SSE and SZSE. The transfer fees charged by SD&C on A-share transactions will decrease from the current 0.3‰ of traded value (two ways) at SSE and 0.0255‰ of traded value (two ways) at SZSE to the same 0.0255‰ of traded value (two ways), or roughly down by 33% based on the market data of the previous two years. Currently, SSE, SZSE and SD&C are prepararing for the rate cuts, which will come into effect on August 1.  

SZSE Releases Information Disclosure Guidelines for Photovoltaic and Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Industries on the ChiNext Board
date: 2015-7-6
It has been one basic job for Shenzhen Stock Exchange to establish a standardized system for information disclosure fitting for market demands since the pilot program of industrial regulation started in 2011. Recently, SZSE released two information disclosure guidelines (hereinafter referred to as “Guideline No.3” and “Guideline No.4”) for photovoltaic industry and energy conservation and environmental protection industry on the ChiNext board. Together with the formerly enforced guidelines for the movie and television industry and the pharmaceuticals industry, a standardized system for information disclosure guidance has been preliminarily formed on the ChiNext board.   Photovoltaic and energy conservation and environmental industries are among the nation’s strategic emerging industries. Ever since its inception five years ago, the ChiNext board has been positioned itself to serving innovative and growth companies and has already gathered a large number of companies in the strategic emerging industries, among which, 11 companies are engaging in the business related to photovoltaic industrial chains and 16 companies are engaging in the energy conservation and environmental protection services. These industries have distinct characteristics from traditional industries, no matter in business or profit models, which cannot be fully covered by the existing information disclosure rules. In order to further improve the pertinence and effectiveness of information disclosure and better protect the legitimate rights and interests of investors, SZSE finally formulated and released the aforesaid guidelines based on daily supervision experience and opinions of market players.   Specifically speaking, the guidelines specify the following disclosure requirements: Guideline No.3: - first, key technical indicators, such as minority carrier lifetime, conversion efficiency, attenuation rate, etc., are required to disclose in detail in periodical reports, and product sales volume, gross margin, sales-output ratio and other important business information are required to disclose according to categories of technology; - second, the main income source countries, sales volume and income, as well as local policy changes, etc. are required to disclose; and - third, disclosure requirements for photovoltaic power station business and its financial and accounting treatment in periodic reports and provisional reports are further detailed. Guideline No.4: - first, distinguish two business types, i.e. project type and franchise type, and specify their disclosure requirements in periodic reports; - second, make it further clear and unified in terms of the degree of risk disclosure, disclosure time-point standards for projects of EMC, BOT, O&M type; - third, specify the disclosure requirements on special accounting treatments for project type and franchise type business; and - fourth, provisional reporting mechanism for events which might have a significant effect on energy conservation and environmental protection projects, such as major environmental accidents and so on.   It is worth mentioning that SZSE has been adhering to market-oriented methods in the process of drafting the Guidelines, trying to let market factors play a decisive role. After the completion of the first draft, SZSE not only solicited comments from relevant listed companies, but also issued a questionnaire survey to more than 3000 investors nationwide, and invited fund companies, securities companies and other market institutions to participate in the formulation process; afterwards, SZSE discussed, revised and replied to the feedback item by item, showing full respect for market opinions.   So far, there have been four industrial information disclosures guidelines on the ChiNext board released by SZSE. According to the investor survey data in May 2015, 92% investors think the guidelines are of great help, and 89% investors are expecting guidelines for other industries. The Shenzhen markets are featured with small and medium-sized enterprises and distinguishing characteristic of emerging industries. Therefore, SZSE will continue to promote differentiation regulation, take emerging industries as the breakthrough point to study industry characteristics, sum up regulatory experiences, and release more industrial information disclosure guidelines fitting for market demands. At present, SZSE has already started the drafting of information disclosure guidelines for industries such as Internet video, games and e-commerce, which will be released later. At the same time, SZSE will also be in line with the regulatory concept centered on information disclosure, continue to steadily push forward industrial regulation, improve the pertinence and effectiveness of information disclosure, and make information disclosure in better service for investors.

Information Disclosure Improvements Made by Shenzhen-listed Companies in 2014 Due to Full Force of Information Disclosure Express Practice
date: 2015-6-25
Shenzhen Stock Exchange has recently completed the 2014 annual evaluation of information disclosure over companies listed on the main board, SME board and ChiNext board. The evaluation gives a good result and shows overall improvements in information disclosure, with 88.94% companies receiving Grade A or Grade B, including 20.83% companies receiving Grade A, a 2% up against the result of 2013.   In September 2011, SZSE launched a significant innovation to the ways of information disclosure and started the pilot program of Information Disclosure Express Practice, which was afterwards gradually promoted into full force. Currently, all companies have taken part in the Express Practice and over 90% announcements are disclosed thereby. On April 8 2015, the time window for the Express Practice was enlarged by SZSE, adding morning sections (6:00-8:00) and non-trading days. Thanks to a series of system reforms, the main body responsibility consciousness of listed companies has greatly enhanced and the quality and efficiency of information disclosure has substantially improved.   Moreover, in order to guide listed companies to do well in information disclosure under the system of the Express Practice and prevent business risks, SZSE has actively taken many effective measures on the basis of previous supervisory practice. For example, trainings and follow-up trainings for board secretary qualification, the Information Disclosure Express Practice, compiling and disclosing periodic reports, etc. were regularly organized; and the Announcement Category Manual of Information Disclosure Express Practice was published in December 2014. In order to continue to urge improvements in the quality of information disclosure and promote supervisory openness, SZSE has also selected some inquiry letters and replies concerning listed companies’ 2014 annual reports and made them public on the website of SZSE in May 2015. So far, 90 pieces of inquiry letters and 73 replies made by listed companies have been disclosed. And the number is increasing.   According to the evaluation results of information disclosure for the recent years, some Grade A companies, such as Ping An Bank, Vanke A, Suning Commerce, Hikvision, Originwater and Tgood, showed standardized operation and high quality information disclosure and have played a good demonstration role; whereas some particular companies received Grade D due to reasons like violation of information disclosure rules, misleading statements found in periodic reports, illegal provision of external financial aid, major errors found in accounting treatment, etc. SZSE will urge such companies to actively improve the level of standard operation, consciously perform the duty of information disclosure and maintain a good image of listed companies in a true and transparent way.   With respects to the main board, 480 companies have taken part in the evaluation, among which, 88 companies such as Ping An Bank received Grade A, accounting for 18.33%; 318 companies such as Cau-Tech received Grade B, accounting for 66.25%; 59 companies such as China High-Speed Railway received Grade C, accounting for 12.29%; and 15 companies such as Extra ST Zhongfu received Grade D, accounting for 3.13%.   With respects to the SME board, 732 companies have taken part in the evaluation, among which, 163 companies such as NHU received Grade A, accounting for 22.27%; 497 companies such as Hongda Xingye received Grade B, accounting for 67.89%; 60 companies such as Elec-tech received Grade C, accounting for 8.2%; and 12 companies such as Extra ST CLTG received Grade D, accounting for 1.64%.   With respects to the ChiNext board, 406 companies have taken part in the evaluation, among which, 86 companies such as Tgood received Grade A, accounting for 21.18%; 287 companies such as Ultrapower Software received Grade B, accounting for 70.69%; 28 companies such as Shanghai Bestway received Grade C, accounting for 6.9%; and 5 companies such as Wanfu Biotechnology received Grade D, accounting for 1.23%.   SZSE will further promote regulatory transition, continuously improve the system of Information Disclosure Express Practice, transfer the focus of information disclosure supervision from beforehand prevention to supervision in process and afterwards, and at the same time urge listed companies to seriously and timely perform information disclosure obligations so as to protect investors’ legitimate rights and interests.

SZSE Signs an Agreement on Comprehensively Deepen Cooperation with CEC
date: 2015-6-17
Shenzhen Stock Exchange signed an agreement on comprehensively deepen cooperation with China Electronics Corporation (hereinafter referred to as “CEC”) on June 12, which is conducive to giving full play to the advantages of resources, professionalism and mechanisms of both sides and strengthening the connection bridging the information-technology industry and the capital markets.   SZSE has always been committed to the construction of multi-tier capital markets and striving to guide the financial living water to the entity economy. It has fostered and supported a large number of scientific and technological innovation-oriented enterprises and leading enterprises in the information industry in recent years. Currently, the ChiNext board has become a gathering platform for the information-technology industry, with 17.16% information-technology companies listed on, only second to the manufacturing industry. As the country’s largest state-owned comprehensive IT group, CEC’s businesses are in high consistence with the “emerging industries, innovative enterprises” features of SZSE. SZSE will take the cooperation opportunity to help CEC to raise its assets securitization level, collaborate and cultivate a group of high quality companies of Internet and information security, and boost the group company to be stronger.   As the national team in the electronic information industry, CEC has actively leveraged the capital markets to promote internal restructuring and integration in recent years, and has made great progress in the aspects of transition and upgrading, structural adjustment, and quality and efficiency improvement. The agreement, signed against the background of deepening SOE reform and the strategic deployment of “Made in China 2025”, is beneficial to deepen CEC’s involvement in the capital markets, implement the country’s new strategic demands on the information technology industry, and boost the transition and upgrading and the construction of a new system of scientific development within itself.   As per the agreement, both parties will carry out multi-level and multi-field cooperation in the aspects of listing cultivation for Internet and information security enterprises, mixed ownership reform, M&A and refinancing, bond financing and assets securitization, information industrial research and Internet financial innovation projects. The two sides will establish regular communication and contact mechanism, strengthening information sharing and personnel exchanges.

Internet Enterprise and Capital Market Matchmaking Symposium Holds in Shenzhen
date: 2015-6-17
The Internet Enterprise and Capital Market Matchmaking Symposium, hosted by Guosen Securities together with Shenzhen Stock Exchange, the National Equities Exchange and Quotations and renowned Internet investors such as Matrix Partners China, China Renaissance Partners, etc., was held on June 13, 2015 in Shenzhen Stock Exchange. Approximately 500 entrepreneurs, representatives of intermediaries and venture capital attended the symposium.   Song Liping, President and CEO of SZSE, addressed the symposium and pointed out that the growth characteristics of Internet enterprises have decided their authentic needs of capital market support. The opportunities for Internet enterprises to match with capital markets have becoming more and more mature. SZSE has always been committed to serving the innovative growth enterprises in the past decade. After years of exploration and accumulation, especially the exploration on the ChiNext board in the past five years, a complete service system which is oriented to innovative enterprises has gradually formed, and Home of SMEs, Home of Membership Business Departments, Home of Financial Media and an omnibearing and stereoscopic investor service platform have been established, all of which are providing better conditions for Internet enterprises to join the capital markets. SZSE is trying to improve the market inclusiveness of the ChiNext board and initiate a mechanism for to-be-profitable Internet enterprises to get listed on the ChiNext board; meanwhile, SZSE will improve the quality of information services, build up markets of high quality to retain excellent Internet enterprises and provide them with a rapid growth platform.   Chen Yongmin, Vice General Manager of the National Equities Exchange and Quotations, believed that the surge of innovative Internet companies returning to the Chinese capital markets is indicating a new development era. The NEEQ is playing a supporting role in the return of VIE enterprises.   Chen Hongqiao, President of Guosen Securities, said that the combination of Internet and capital will generate great liberation in productivity. In the tide of Internet, intermediary institutions should rediscover the global position of China’s Internet industry and the new mission of capital markets from a new viewpoint, and serve Internet companies with a full-cycle, chain-type, and systemic thinking method and implementation system.   Principals of renowned venture investment institutions, including Ni Zhengdong from Zero2IPO Group, Bao Fan from China Renaissance Partners, Yan Yan from SAIF Partners, Xiong Xiaoge from IDG, Xu Chuansheng from Matrix Partners China, Zhou Kui from Sequoia Capital, and Chen Wei from Oriental Fortune Capital, shared their ideas on value assessment, capital value-added services and return experiences for Internet companies.   Besides, experts from Guosen Securities, King & Wood Mallesons, Ernst & Young, and Jun He Law Offices expatiated on operational details in relation to the VIE and privatization, listing and market making of Internet enterprises.   Attendees said China’s capital market is stepping into an unprecedented era; the emerging industry represented by Internet companies is becoming a new force, a new pillar and new future of the Chinese economy, and will become the most active sector in the capital markets. The symposium not only described the trend of reform and innovation happening in China’s capital markets from the macroscopic angle, but also thoroughly discussed the problems of how to match with the capital markets, especially solving the VIE and privatization problems for Internet companies, further enhancing their confidence to leverage China’s capital markets.

Sample Adjustment of SZSE Component Index, SZSE SME Index and SZSE ChiNext Index
date: 2015-6-9
Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. announced recently to make regular adjustment, in line with the indices compiling rules, to the sample stocks for SZSE series indices, which include SZSE Component Index, SZSE SME Index, SZSE ChiNext Index and SZSE 100 Index. Meanwhile, Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. announced to make regular adjustment to the sample stocks for CNI 100 Index and other cross-market indices. The adjustments will come into effect as of the first trading day of July in 2015.   35 stocks will be adjusted to the sample stocks of SZSE Component Index, with Guosen Securities, Flush Info, etc. to be swapped in as sample stock, whereas Luoping Zinc and Electricity, Longda Meat Foodstuff, etc. to be swapped out of sample stock, which will be the first sample adjustment after index expansion; 10 stocks will be adjusted to the sample stocks of SZSE SME Index, with Guosen Securities, Liyuan Precision Manufacturing, etc. to be swapped in, whereas Suzhou Goodark, Jiangsu Guotai, etc. to be swapped out; 7 stocks will be adjusted to the sample stocks of SZSE ChiNext Index, with Lens Technology, Three-Circle (Group), etc. to be swapped in, whereas Jolly Pharmaceutical, Taisheng Wind Power, etc. to be swapped out; 6 stocks will be adjusted to the sample stocks of SZSE 100 Index, with Guosen Securities, East Money, etc. to be swapped in, whereas Haining Leather Market, Zoneco, etc. to be swapped out; 7 stocks will be adjusted to the sample of CNI 100 Index, with Guosen Securities, AVIC Capital, etc. to be swapped in, whereas Baiyunshan, Shanghai Jahwa, etc. to be swapped out.   The market representativeness of SZSE Component Index will be enhanced after the adjustment, with market coverage of about 60%. From the perspective of market distribution, 212 sample stocks (weighing 36%) are listed on the SME board and 94 sample stocks (weighing 17%) are listed on the ChiNext board, totaling 306 stocks (weighing 54%).   Moreover, the industrial structure of core indices in the Shenzhen market will be further optimized, with better representativeness for emerging industries in the domestic capital markets. After the adjustment, the industry of information technology, the heaviest-weighted one, will weigh 22% in SZSE Component Index. The total weight of information technology, medicine and healthcare, optional and main consumption and telecommunication will be over 50% in SZSE Component Index, over 60% in SZSE SME Index, and approximately 80% in SZSE ChiNext Index.

CSDC, SZSE and HKMA Collaborate to Provide Infrastructure Services for Mutual Recognition to Cross-border Funds
date: 2015-5-27
China Securities Regulatory Commission and Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission jointly announced on May 22 that the Mutual Recognition to Cross-border Funds (hereinafter referred to as “the Mutual Recognition”) will be put into implementation on July 1, 2015.   Due to the large number of institutions involved in the Mutual Recognition and the open system and difficulties in operation and supervision, China Securities Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “CSDC”), Shenzhen Stock Exchange (hereinafter referred to as “SZSE”) and Hong Kong Monetary Authority (hereinafter referred to as “HKMA”) have decided to realize the interconnection and interworking between two markets via platform connectivity. Based on a good understanding of both markets, the Data Exchange Protocol for Cross-border Trading has been issued as the technical standard for the Mutual Recognition. The infrastructure services include data transmission for cross-border fund sales, fund-share registrar, nominee holding, cross-border capital settlement, information disclosure, online signing, floor trading, etc. Only with system improvement and platform connectivity among CSDC, SZSE and HKMA, can cross-border data and capitals be transferred in a safe, compliant and efficient manner. Market players on both sides can keep their existing trading habits unchanged, and there’s no need to establish complicated interface for data or capital between institutions in different markets.   Song Liping, President and CEO of SZSE said that as another important arrangement for two-way opening-up of capital markets, the Mutual Recognition is different from Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect or Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect. It is not only capital connection between the mainland and Hong Kong, but also an important move for opening-up of services and trades in the mainland, which is conducive to the further deepening of cooperation between both capital markets. Since the year of 2014, SZSE has been collaborating with CSDC and HKMA to work out the scheme for the Mutual Recognition and system construction. Shenzhen Securities Communication Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of SZSE, will provide data communication and other diversified services for the cross-border fund sales.   CSDC has always been committed to providing high-efficient, convenience and low-cost infrastructure services to the fund industry, said Dai Wenhua, General Manager of CSDC, the fund sales in the mainland has been centralized on the Fund Central Data Exchange Platform. For the Mutual Recognition, CSDC will stick to the principles of serving and facilitating the fund industry. Without making any changes by domestic fund companies or sales agents, Hong Kong fund companies and sales agents or the CMU Platform of HKMA can access to the Fund Central Data Exchange Platform so that trading data will be automatically transferred. Meanwhile, CSDC will also provide fund-share registrar, nominee holding, cross-border capital settlement and other services for the Mutual Recognition.   Peter Pang, Deputy Chief Executive of HKMA said that the CMU Platform of HKMA is an important infrastructure of the standardization services of the fund industry in Hong Kong. On such basis, HKMA is actively collaborating with CSDC and SZSE to provide financial infrastructure services for the Mutual Recognition. The CMU Platform of HKMA will connect with the Fund Central Data Exchange Platform in mainland to provide fund purchase, fund redemption, fund conversion and capital settlement for the Mutual Recognition.   The co-working mechanism among CSDC, SZSE and HKMA has been established and will soon provide services for the industry. It is expected that more and more innovative and high-efficient services will be provided so as to lay a solid foundation to the infrastructure of cross-border capital markets.

Sample Expansion of SZSE Component Index
date: 2015-5-22
Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. announced today that sample stocks of SZSE Component Index (Code:399001, Abbreviation: SZSE Component) would be expanded as of May 20, 2015, as to reflect the fruit of multi-layer capital market development, and depict comprehensively the operation feature of Shenzhen securities market. After the expansion, the number of the Index sample stocks will be expanded from 40 to 500, while the Index’s code, abbreviation, and rule of selecting sample stocks remain unchanged.   After the sample expansion, the market representativeness of SZSE Component Index increases substantially. The total market capitalization of new SZSE Component is approximately CNY13 trillion, with up 60% of market capitalization coverage, which is close to that of benchmark indices in domestic markets and overseas markets.   The distribution of sample stocks of SZSE Component Index in different boards becomes more equilibrium and reasonable. After the expansion, the weights of sample stocks on the Main Board, the SME Board and the ChiNext Board are 48%, 35%, 17% respectively, close to the market capitalization percentage of each board in Shenzhen Market. As for the number of sample stocks in different boards, 211 are on the SME Board, and 90 on the ChiNext Board, totaling 301 stocks, which occupy 60% of the index sample stocks. Thus the Index substantially represents the small-and-medium size growth enterprises.   The industry structure of SZSE Component Index is identical to that of Shenzhen Market. After the expansion, the weights of financial industry and real estate industry drop from 31% to 14%; meanwhile, the weight of information technology industry, which has become the biggest weighted industry, increases from 14% to 20%. The new SZSE Component Index is different from Shanghai Composite Index and CSI 300 Index in terms of industry structure, thus reflects the structure feature of Shenzhen Market.

SZSE Essay Contest
date: 2015-5-20
Investors are the headspring and power of the capital markets, and the most important foundation and condition of the healthy and stable development of capital markets. In order to reflect the growth of the masses of investors for the last two decades and inspire their rational thinking of market risks and investment decisions, Shenzhen Stock Exchange is proud to announce an Essay Contest on the following topic:   Telling My Investment Stories, Helping Your Rational Investment   I. Your essay: should be around market ups and downs and your own investment experience with no limit to title, style or length of words. Try to convey your investment feelings, comprehension and harvest in the fight with market risks in creative expression.   II. The prize: essays of finalists will be included in the creations of SZSE investor education products and published in related journals or books. Winners will be listed in the credits of investor education products plus exquisite prizes. First Prize: one winner Second Prize: three winners Third Prize: six winners Prize of Excellent Essays: several   III. Submission and deadline: all units and individuals are encouraged to enter the Essay Contest (for units, please provide your name and address; for individuals, please provide your ID card number). Please submit your essay to the following email address: investorvoice@szse.cn, with email title as “Entry for Telling My Investment Stories, Helping Your Rational Investment”. All entries should be submitted by July 21, 2015.   IV. The jury: consists of cultural and creative workers, investor education professionals and representatives of investors.

Shenzhen Stock Exchange Signs MOU with Euronext
date: 2015-5-19
Euronext and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) today announced the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to enhance the development of Exchange Traded Products (ETPs) in the Republic of China and the Euronext markets. The MOU is the starting point for collaboration on joint development, research, marketing, and specialized trading technology, as well as co-branding of indices and Exchange Traded Products.   The two exchanges have agreed to a series of engagements to further develop ETP trading. In order to facilitate Chinese residents’ effective and convenient investment in the European market and European investors in the Chinese market, Euronext and SZSE will actively promote cross listings of ETPs. The exchanges will also collaborate on index-related subjects, research papers or, when appropriate, on index compilation based on global or local markets. Both exchanges will also support each party’s licensing of market data in the other party’s market.   Euronext and SZSE will explore the possibility of further future cooperation on other relevant subjects, such as the development of capital raising facilities for small and medium enterprises, dual listing, the fixed income market and off-shore RMB products.   “Our partnership for the joint development of Exchange Traded Products and Indices in China and Europe is an exciting development.” said Lee Hodgkinson, Head of Markets and Global Sales at Euronext. “The Chinese financial markets are undergoing a remarkable transformation and we are privileged to be in a position to jointly develop innovative new products and create opportunities for trading and investment across both regions.”    Liyang Jin, Executive Vice President of SZSE pointed out that, “The Chinese capital market is undergoing profound changes and reform. Besides improving basic equity products, the SZSE is also enriching the product line and building a more open market to provide more liquidity and risk management tools for domestic and foreign investors. The cooperation with Euronext will further facilitate cross-border investment and financing activities.”     About Euronext Euronext is the primary exchange in the Euro zone with over 1 300 issuers worth ?2.6 trillion in market capitalisation, an unmatched blue-chip franchise consisting of 20+ issuers in the EURO STOXX 50? benchmark and a strong, diverse domestic and international client base. Euronext operates regulated and transparent equity and derivatives markets. Its total product offering includes Equities, Exchange Traded Funds, Warrants & Certificates, Bonds, Derivatives, Commodities and Indices. Euronext also leverages its expertise in running markets by providing technology and managed services to third parties. Euronext operates regulated markets, Alternext and the Free Market; in addition it offers EnterNext, which facilitates SMEs’ access to capital markets.   About Shenzhen Stock Exchange Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), established on 1st December, 1990, is one of the two stock exchanges in Chinese mainland. SZSE has 1660 listed companies with a total market capitalization of 3.4 trillion US dollars. Consisting of the Main Board, SME Board and ChiNext Market, SZSE has developed a multi-tiered capital market system serving issuers at different stages of growth. SZSE’s products include equities, mutual funds and bonds. The product lines include A-shares, B-shares, indices, mutual funds (including ETFs and LOFs), fixed income products (including SME collective bonds and asset-backed securities), and structured financial products. SZSE is a member of both the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) and the Asian and Oceanian Stock Exchanges Federation (AOSEF). It is also an affiliate member of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO).

SZSE Holds an Internet Industry Forum, a Strong Support to the Development of Internet Companies
date: 2015-5-7
Shenzhen Stock Exchange recently held an Internet Industry Forum in Beijing in a move to better implement the State Council’s “Internet Plus” initiative and enhance capital markets’ support for Internet companies. Listed and pre-IPO companies in the Internet industry, angel investors, venture capitals and securities companies were invited to the Forum to have in-depth communication around topics such as major problems and obstacles confronting Internet companies in their application for domestic listing, policy preference needed for their sustainable development after listing, etc.   Companies spoke up enthusiastically at the Forum and expected to solve the policy barriers such as earnings threshold, VIE structures, cross-period equity incentive, etc. confronting Internet companies in their application for domestic listing. They hoped to establish an IPO Approval Mechanism which is in line with the characteristics of Internet companies, and further optimize rules governing M&A, equity incentive, re-financing, information disclosure, etc. Venture capital investors and representatives of securities companies said that the current rapid development of new economy is representing by Internet companies, whose application for domestic listing should be vigorously supported. They suggested SZSE attract some leading Internet companies that have a certain scale and leading-edge in sub-industries.   “Internet Plus” has risen as a national strategy with multiple policy preference, which has led the Internet industry to a phase of new development opportunities with broad growth prospects, said an officer of SZSE, we have always attached great importance to the development of innovative companies, especially Internet companies. Currently, there are 34 Internet companies listed on SZSE, including 26 on the ChiNext board. Rapid expansion has been made after listing by these companies, which are highly recognized by the markets and investors. The ChiNext board has become the cluster of excellent Internet companies with characteristics distinctive from other boards of the markets.   One of the important considerations in the current promotion of the reform of IPO Registration System lies in the enhancement of inclusiveness of markets, emphasized by the SZSE officer, we hope to satisfy the listing and financing needs of more companies and give vigorous support to Internet and hi-tech companies for their listing on the ChiNext board. Therefore, SZSE will further optimize relevant rules, set up differentiated listing requirements, detail the requirements of industrial information disclosure, and establish a rule system which is in line with the law of enterprise growth and the characteristics of operation. Meanwhile, SZSE will also establish a market-classified and industry-classified review mechanism among the main board, SME board and ChiNext board. SZSE hopes to deepen their communication and cooperation with more and more Internet companies, who will support the constructions and reforms in the capital markets and jointly push forward the healthy development of the Internet industry.  

SZSE Strengthens Institutional Construction of Membership Self-discipline Rules
date: 2015-5-4
Recently approved by China Securities Regulatory Commission and released by Shenzhen Stock Exchange, the Membership Management Rule (Revised in 2015) will come into force from the date of release. As an important move for SZSE to deepen self-discipline management over members, strengthen investor protection and promote the standardization and development of the markets, this revision has positive significance on strengthening members’ compliance and risk management, safeguarding trading security and maintaining the order of the securities markets.   As one of the three basic business rules of SZSE, the Membership Management Rule was promulgated and implemented in 2007 and is imperative to be revised due to the significant changes in legal environment, market situations, industry conditions, etc. Adhering to the principles of marketization, legalization and transparency, the revision this time make some perfection in aspects of compliance and risk-control of members, investor education and suitability management, management of customer trading behaviors and technology system construction of members.   The contents being revised mainly cover the following aspects: - first, to improve the investor suitability management and strengthen the protection of investors by 1) requesting members to establish a management mechanism based on customer classification and product grading, and 2) requesting members to prompt risk to investors in a timely manner and specifying the risk warning delivery mechanism for high-risk securities such delisting, etc.; - second, to strengthen investor education and services and enhance investors’ risk awareness by requesting members to include investor education into each business segment, enrich the forms and contents of investors education and enhance its effectiveness, and establish a evaluation mechanism of investor education to arouse the initiative of members; - third, to emphasize compliance management and risk control of members and safeguard trading security in the markets by requesting members to optimize the functions such as trading verification and authority management in their technical systems in a bid to implement front-end control of proprietary trading, asset management, etc., and establish a reporting mechanism of programming trading and innovative business in a bid to identify and prevent trading risks in a timely manner; - fourth, to improve customer trading behavior management and guide investors to participate in the markets in compliance with laws and regulation by requesting members to perfect trading monitoring system to give timely notice or reminder to customers about abnormal trading behaviors, and establish a key monitoring mechanism for accounts of serious abnormal trading behaviors; - fifth, to optimize the trading participant management system which can adapt to the development needs of new business such as “Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect” and options, and to perfect the system of diversified trading participants; and - sixth, to actively promote decentralization and deregulation and increase the of the transparency of rules and the efficiency of regulation by reducing reporting requirements on members, specifying the eligibility for membership application, termination conditions and handling procedures, and adjusting to and enriching measures for self-discipline management.   An officer of SZSE emphasized that the year of 2015 is crucial for deepening reforms in an all-round way, and the regulatory transition and innovative development in the capital markets have stepped into a new era. Members of SZSE are confronting new situations, challenges and requirements in self-discipline supervision along with the rapid development of multi-tier capital markets, innovative products and business, and unprecedented surge of investors. For the next step, SZSE will will actively adapt itself to the new situations of the capital markets, earnestly implement the work deployment of National Work Conference on Securities And Futures Regulatory, give full play to the elasticity and advantage of front-line regulation, prepare for orderly cohesion with administrative supervision, improve the mechanism of membership self-discipline management, enhance regulation efficiency, and promote the long-term and healthy development of capital markets.

SZSE Publicly Censures the Controlling Shareholder and Relevant Parties of Cloud Live Technology Group Co., Ltd.
date: 2015-4-23
Shenzhen Stock Exchange has recently placed public censure on Cloud Live Technology Group Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “the Company”) for the failure to perform public commitments by Meng Kai, the Company’s controlling shareholder, and person acting in concert Kizilsu Kirghiz Autonomous Prefecture Xiangeqing Investment Holding Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “Kizilsu Xiangeqing”).   It is ascertained through investigation that Meng Kai and Kizilsu Xiangeqing made commitments on November 1 2013 that within three months upon receiving gains from each sell-off of the Company’s stocks, they would voluntarily provide 30 percent of the total gains to the Company as financial aid via bank transfer and other approaches. The commitments were disclosed on November 5 2013, when the fluctuation of the Company’s stocks reached the upper limit.   Thereafter, 40 million stocks of the Company were sold by Kizilsu Xiangeqing, whose bank account received RMB 150 million sell-off gains as of October 8 2014. Subject to the aforesaid commitments, Kizilsu Xiangeqing should have provided financial aid of RMB 45 million to the Company no later than January 8 2015. According to the Company’s announcements, Meng Kai and Kizilsu Xiangeqing only provided financial aid of RMB 30 million as of April 10 2015, and there is a big uncertainty on whether the rest of financial funding could eventually be provided.   It has a great influence on listed companies to perform commitments, which are also important basis for investors’ decision-making, said by an officer in charge of this case of SZSE, honesty and promise-keeping are the obligations that must be performed by listed companies, their controlling shareholders, de facto controllers, etc. Relevant parties in this case lacked credit consciousness, on which SZSE placed a serious punishment according to rules. It is the embodiment of strengthening supervision over commitments.   SZSE has made great progress in the credit system construction for the recent years. Credit archives, regulatory measures and other information are made public on the website, WeChat or Weibo in a timely manner. Under the background of regulatory transition, SZSE will continue to strengthen efforts on supervision over commitments in the course and afterwards, and build up an effective connection between commitment performance and risk-classified supervision, so as to safeguard the rights and interests of investors.   According to the Company’s disclosure, Meng Kai and the Company are now under investigation of China Securities Regulatory Commission due to the suspicion of violating securities laws and regulations. There is risk on implementing a delisting risk warning on the Company’s stocks, and risk on being suspended from listing on the Company’s corporate bonds.

SZSE Greatly Simplifies and Integrates Information Disclosure Memos for the Main Board, Fuelling up Regulatory Transition
date: 2015-4-20
In a bid to deepen regulatory transition, further optimize self-discipline rules for information disclosure and enhance its regulatory efficiency, Shenzhen Stock Exchange recently completed the amendments to Information Disclosure Memos for Companies Listed on the Main Board, which has been promulgated in the Special Business Zone today.   It is learned that 12 memos of the 33 original applicable memos for information disclosure and 7 memos for new accounting standards have been included in the SZSE Guidelines on Standard Operations for Companies Listed on the Main Board (revised in 2015), which has come into force on March 20 2015, and the remaining 28 memos have been integrated into 7 memos for disclosing information on the Main Board.   The true, accurate, complete, timely and fair information disclosure by listed companies lays foundation for the health running of the capital markets, said by an officer of SZSE. In order to solve the prominent problems in information disclosure by listed companies, SZSE has formulated and implemented a lot of memos, which have played an irreplaceable role in the supervision work as an important part of the self-discipline rules system of SZSE. With the rapid development of the markets, the scattered and fragmented memos have imposed too many restrictions on information disclosure. Based on the reasonable opinions and suggestions collected in the previous activities, such as Listed Companies’ Open House Program and Securities Companies’ Open House Program, SZSE revised the Guidelines on Standard Operations for Companies Listed on the Main Board and started the amendments to Information Disclosure Memos.   The amendments are focused on the following aspects: - first, restrictions on some information disclosure are loosened, including “abandonment of rights”, “providing of external financial aid” and “deposits, loans and other financial business with related financial companies”, and the independent judgment and disclosure requirements of the board of directors of listed companies is strengthened. - second, some disclosure requirements are added, deleted or revised according to the multi-tier information disclosure regulation and the latest changes of relevant business rules of SZSE, enhancing the conciseness, readability and effectiveness of information disclosure. - third, new disclosure requirements are added in a bid to reflect the new business and products emerging in the markets. For example, information of preferred stocks is required to disclose in periodic reports. - four, the framework of the memos is determined according to two categories i.e. information disclosure by listed companies and regulatory businesses, and then the contents of chapters are set according to sub-categories of specific businesses. The memos basically cover the whole process of related businesses, which help listed companies to comprehensively and fully grasp the disclosure requirements on related businesses.   The SZSE officer said that with the development of IPO registration system reform and the deepening of two-way opening of the capital markets, higher requirements on the quality of information disclosure will be raised by the markets. SZSE will take the demands of investors as the guide, further improve the classification regulation, explore the industry-classified regulation, deepen the study on similarities and differences between domestic and overseas information disclosure rules, continue to perfect the information disclosure rules, explore to establish the new supervision mechanism in the course and afterwards, and put the regulatory concept centered by information disclosure into practice.

SZSE Convenes Work Conference on Self-discipline Supervision over Listed Companies
date: 2015-4-16
Shenzhen Stock Exchange recently convened a work conference on self-discipline supervision over listed companies, where relevant work under new situations was studied and deployed. The conference pointed out that the year of 2015 is crucial for deepening reforms in an all-round way with profound changes happening to the capital market from external environments to internal mechanism and new topics as well as new challenges confronting the self-discipline supervision work over listed companies. SZSE will focus its efforts on promoting regulatory transition, explore and build up a new supervision mechanism in the course and afterwards of information disclosure, and constantly improve the level of supervision under the rule of law, so as to earnestly implement the work deployment of the National Work Conference on Securities and Futures Regulation and the spirit of CSRC at the Communication Meeting on Supervision over Listed Companies on March 31.   Establishing a new supervision mechanism in the course and afterwards of information disclosure is an important way for SZSE to perform its due duties, as pointed out at the conference. Supervision in the course can correct and stop misconducts in a timely manner, effectively guard against and dissolve market risks, and maintain the market order in an open, fair and impartial manner. SZSE should be oriented by problems and risks, vigorously promote classification regulation, orderly implement the regulation based on different industries, strengthen regulation with scientific techniques, and comprehensively enhance the ability and level of supervision over listed companies.   Specifically speaking, SZSE’s supervision work over listed companies under new situations will focus on the following aspects:   First, vigorously promoting regulatory transition and realizing open and transparent supervision. SZSE will establish and improve the public mechanism of regulatory correspondences and companies’ response letters, expand the scope of disclosure in good order, and explore the periodic or real-time disclosure of processes and results of information disclosure appraisals. SZSE will also study and formulate a Power List, Responsibility List and Negative List, further optimize the dynamic cleaning-up mechanism of review and registration items, and improve the efficiency of processing such items. Channels like press conferences, Weibo, WeChat, etc. will also be used to strengthen public opinion guidance and social supervision   Second, optimizing rules for information disclosure and innovating methods of information disclosure with orientation of investors’ demands. Coordinating with the reform of registration system, SZSE will revise the self-discipline rules such as Stock Listing Rules and Instructions on Standard Operations of Listed Companies, and streamline and integrate the memorandum for information disclosure business. Taking the chance of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect, SZSE will have in-depth analysis of the difference of information disclosure between Hong Kong and Shenzhen markets, and study and solve the collaborative problems of cross-market and cross-border information disclosure. SZSE will optimize the compulsory information disclosure aiming at real-time, customization and concise as goals, and encourage voluntary, interactive and characteristic disclosure.   Third, promoting the Information Disclosure Express Practice in an all-round way and propelling market players back to their due responsibilities. SZSE will expand the scope of companies by including those with information disclosure appraisal results of D and new-listings into the Practice, and expand the scope of announcements and realize complete isolation of sensitive information. Based on the morning and non-trading days express disclosure launched earlier, SZSE will study to further extend the time window for after-market disclosure, so as to improve the efficiency of express disclosure.   Four, optimizing classified supervision and risk screening and enhancing supervisory efficiency with orientation of problems and risks. SZSE will optimize the indicator system for classified supervision with big data regulatory theory in a bid to improve the ability to discover problems and risks. SZSE will also explore to implement the targeted afterwards review mechanism with some companies exempting from reviews and some companies of high risks being cross-reviewed. A system of multi-person supervision group will also be established to strengthen the restriction and balance mechanism.   Five, orderly promoting supervision based on different industries and improving supervisory professionalism. SZSE will focus efforts on promoting industrial-classified supervision on emerging industries, industries cannot be fully reflected characteristics under existing rules and high-risk industries. Information disclosure guidance for industries like Internet and energy conservation and environment protection will be introduced, and information disclosure guidance for industries like real estate, mining and animal husbandry will be studied and formulated.   Six, strengthening studies on new patterns and new situations and increasing the effectiveness and capability of quick response in supervision. SZSE will strengthen afterwards supervision and carry out the special supervision work of “looking back” over M&A transactions. Expert review mechanism of significant new events will be established as so to build up a quick review and feedback mechanism through methods like legal analysis, expert argumentation and market analysis.   Seven, exploring Big Data supervision, realizing regulation with scientific techniques, and enhancing the level of regulatory cooperation and sharing. Based on the mass data of financial and non-financial information disclosure of listed companies, SZSE will gradually realize the cross comparison of companies’ information disclosure with public opinion information, misconduct reporting, and companies’ historic disclosure by exploring the use of big data technologies, such as “Internet Search”, “Text Mining”, “XBRL”, “Cloud Computing”, etc. SZSE will also further optimize the information sharing platform, and enhance the function of the existing financial analysis system.

SZSE Launches Morning Disclosure, A Big Move for Deepening Information Disclosure System Reform
date: 2015-4-8
Shenzhen Stock Exchange recently promulgated the Notice of Implementing the Information Disclosure Express Practice during Morning Sessions of Trading Days and Non-trading Days, which will initiate the morning information disclosure practice in China’s securities markets. Succeeding the launch of midday disclosure in August 2007, it is another great move of SZSE to implement CSRC’s work deployment of regulatory transition which is centered by information disclosure system.   As introduced by an officer of SZSE, the information disclosure express practice during morning sessions of trading days and non-trading days will be put into official running on April 8 2015. From this day on, companies can make express disclosure during the morning sessions (6:00-8:00) of each trading days and the afternoon sessions (12:00-16:00) of a single non-trading day or the last day of several consecutive non-trading days, adding to the two existing disclosure periods (i.e. midday disclosure and after-market disclosure) on trading days.   Further enhancing the market efficiency and improving the timeliness of information disclosure, the launch of morning disclosure allows listed companies to perform disclosure obligations at the shortest possible time upon major events happen, thus greatly reducing trading suspension on stocks and fully protecting the trading rights of investors. By adding the morning disclosure and non-trading days disclosure, the Shenzhen market realizes butt joint with the Hong Kong market and other mature capital markets abroad in terms of information disclosure periods, which can provide investors with a more convenient and effective market environment and lays a solid foundation for Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect and other capital market reforms.   According to the officer of SZSE, the institutional arrangement of multi-period information disclosure and the launch of morning disclosure will not only lead to more emphasis on the efficiency of information disclosure of listed companies and improve quality of information disclosure, but also bring forward higher requirements to regulatory departments in such aspects as regulatory sensitivity, rapid response ability, etc. SZSE will earnestly implement the regulatory concepts centered by information disclosure, guide by the demands of investors, further simplify the uploading processes for information disclosure, optimize the display interface for information disclosure, strengthen the function of “Easy IR”, improve information disclosure interactivity, constantly push forward the real-time, concise and interactive information disclosure, and improve the systems of information disclosure for listed companies.

SZSE Convenes the 45th Meeting of the 3rd Council
date: 2015-4-1
On March 30, 2015, Shenzhen Stock Exchange convened the 45th Meeting of the 3rd Council, where SZSE 2014 Work Report and 2015 Work Arrangements, Work Report of the Special Committee under the Council, and other business rules were approved.   The Council fully affirmed SZSE’s achievements in promoting regulatory transition, strengthening infrastructure construction, serving entrepreneurship and innovation in 2014, and pointed out that the year of 2015 would be crucial for the capital market to comprehensively deepen reforms. Guiding by the “Four Comprehensively” strategic deployment (namely, to comprehensively build a moderately prosperous society, comprehensively deepen reform, comprehensively govern the country according to the law, and comprehensively apply strictness in governing the party) and in accordance with the requirements put forth in the National Work Conference on Securities and Futures Supervision, SZSE shall coordinate and promote the key tasks of reforms, stimulate the market’s vitality, accelerate regulatory transition, ensure safe operation, comprehensively enhance the level of marketization, legalization and internationalization, improve core competence in service, technology and management, and endeavor to serve the capital market and the national development strategies at a higher level and broader scope.   The Council’s important role in SZSE’s governance structure was stressed at the meeting. This year is the year of reform and innovation, when a lot of important reform tasks should be put into practice, including the reform of registration system, the launching of Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect, the issuance of SZSE 100ETF Option, the reconstruction of SZSE Component Index, and the construction of Qianhai platform. Under such new situations, the Council should perform its due duties to support the management team to propel and implement the reform tasks by adhering to the statutory duties and the decision-making principle and procedure requirements of “Three-Importances & One-Large (i.e. important decision-making for state-owned enterprises, important personnel arrangements, important project arrangements and large amount of capital operation)”.   The function of the Special Committee under the Council should be further emphasized and given more play, as mentioned at the meeting. The enthusiasm and initiative of the Committee should be vitalized and its role of strategic consultation and decision-making support should be allowed full play. SZSE shall create conditions to help the Committee implement its work, gradually optimize mechanism for work communication and member incentive, constantly improve the governance level in SZSE through perfecting the work of the Council and the Committee.   The meeting also discussed matters in relation to holding a general meeting for SZSE members when appropriate.

SZSE Small and Medium Enterprise Innovative Index Launched
date: 2015-3-25
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. recently announced to issue SZSE Small and Medium Enterprise Innovative Index (Code: 399015, Abbreviation: SZSE SME Inno) on March 24 2015, in a move to reflect the overall performance of stocks of different sizes in the Shenzhen market and provide the market with more analysis tools and performance benchmark. The index takes December 30 2011 as the base date and 1000 points as the base value.   Sampling from the 1000 constituents of SZSE 1000 Index after removing the 500 constituents of SZSE Component Index, the Index is a good benchmark to mirror the movements of small and medium innovative enterprises in the Shenzhen market. The constituents will be adjusted correspondingly when SZSE 1000 Index and SZSE Component Index make sample adjustments.   The Shenzhen securities market is featured with multiple tiers and innovative listed companies, some of which have become the bellwethers in the country’s economic transition and upgrading. According to statistics, SZSE Small and Medium Enterprise Innovative Index has reported an accumulated income of 116% for the period from the base date to the end of February 2015, whereas SSE Composite Index and SZSE Composite Index reported 51% and 88% respectively during the same period.   SZSE Small and Medium Enterprise Innovative Index shows equilibrium distribution among different boards of the market, including 145 constituents listed on the main board, 251 constituents listed on the SME board, and 104 constituents listed on the ChiNext board. In terms of industrial structure, the consumer industry (including consumer discretionary and consumer staples) weights the heaviest (22%), and emerging industries, such as consumer, information technology, medicine and health, telecommunications business, etc. aggregately weight over 50% in the Index. Data as of the end of February 2015 indicate that the total market capitalization of the Index exceeded RMB 3 trillion with average capitalization of the constituents of RMB 6.2 billion. In 2014, its daily average turnover reached RMB 39.6 billion.   More specific material on the Index can be found on the website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and the website of CNI Index (www.cnindex.com.cn).

Press Conference on Expansion and Reconstruction of SZSE Component Index
date: 2015-3-25
I. Why implement expansion and reconstruction to SZSE Component Index?   SZSE Component Index (Code: 399001, hereinafter referred to as “SZSE Component”) was launched by Shenzhen Stock Exchange in 1995 as a benchmark index to reflect the status of the Shenzhen market. For the past two decades, the Shenzhen market has witnessed rapid development, with the number of listed companies increasing from 120 to 1640, as well as the market size and structure. However, the Index still only has 40 constituent stocks without any expansion, which has already become unable to reflect the characteristics of the Shenzhen market in the following aspects:   - first, inadequate representativeness for the Shenzhen market. With 40 constituent stocks, the SZSE Component only accounts for 2.4% of the total number of listed companies in the Shenzhen market or 18% of the total market capitalization, whereas other benchmark indices generally have more than 60% market capitalization coverage.   - second, failure to reflect the development achievements of the multi-tiered capital market. Currently, with only 11 companies listed on the SME board and 3 on the ChiNext board included, the SZSE Component’s industrial structure is deflected to traditional pillar industries (for example, finance and real estate, weighing 31% in the Index, only account for 12% in the Shenzhen market.), which is difficult to reflect the achievements of capital markets in fostering small and medium enterprises and strategic emerging industries.   - third, falling market recognition and influence. For the recent years, the market behaviors of SZSE Component have become more and more close to SSE Composite Index and CSI 300 Index, but more and more differentiated from SZSE Composite Index, SZSE SME Index and SZSE ChiNext Index, which shows its weakening role as scaleplate in the Shenzhen market.   At present, with SSE Composite Index and CSI 300 Index measuring blue chip stocks, the market lacks a benchmark index to reflect the growth of small and medium-sized listed companies. In order to fully reflect the achievements of multi-tiered capital market in our country, facilitate market players fully understand the overall performance and give play to the important role of benchmark indices, SZSE has decided to implement expansion and reconstruction for SZSE Component Index.   II. How will SZSE Component Index be expanded and reconstructed?   Related research work was started in 2011. Based on long-term and in-depth arguments, opinions and suggestions widely solicited from fund brokers, institutional investors, international index companies, fund holders and medium and small investors, and many discussions carried out among SZSE committee of index experts and Innovation and Development Committee under the board, the scheme for expansion and reconstruction of SZSE Component Index has been decided as follows: 1) The number of constituent stocks will be increased from 40 to 500; 2) Code, name and sampling methodology of the Index will remain unchanged.   In order to achieve a smooth transition and fully protect rights and interests of investors, SZSE will arrange the listing of the new Index after two months upon the announcement.   Fully considering the development trends and operational characteristics of the Shenzhen market, and learning from successful reconstruction experiences of S&P 500, Hang Seng Index and SSE 180 Index, the scheme conforms to the evolution rules of benchmark indices, and has comprehensive advantages of extensive representativeness, low technical risks, good historical continuity and conformity to investor habits.   III. Why expand the constituent stocks to 500?   The Shenzhen market has been expanded rapidly for the past ten years. The reconstruction this time aims to concentratedly solve the accumulated problems. Based on the following four reasons, SZSE will expand the constituent stocks to 500:   - first, to reach an appropriate market coverage level. In order to reflect overall characteristics and market behaviors, benchmark indices must reach certain coverage of market capitalization, usually above 60% in the international markets. Due to the large number of SMEs, the Shenzhen market is featured with low concentration of market capitalization and prominent fat-tail phenomenon. For example, the top 400 companies in size only cover 50% of the total market capitalization in the Shenzhen market, whereas the top 50 companies in size already cover 53% of the total market capitalization in the Shanghai market. Therefore, to reach a coverage level of a benchmark index in Shenzhen market, constituent stocks must be plenty.   - second, to reflect the structural characteristics of the market. According to the evolution analysis on market capitalization structure, industrial structure and sector structure in the Shenzhen market, taking 500 constituents can better reflect the structure and evolution of the Shenzhen market and fully mirror the market structural characteristics on the basis of overall reasonable coverage.   - third, to meet the needs of further development of the market. The transformation of economic development patterns and industrial transition and upgrade in China call for development of small and medium-sized enterprises, innovative enterprises and emerging industries. On a mission to build up a multi-tiered capital market, SZSE fully supports the development of SMEs. In the future, the number of listed companies will further increase. The number of constituent stocks should have the foresight to adapt to the development needs of the market in the future.   - fourth, to combine the functions of benchmark and investment. Benchmark indices are not only scaleplates reflecting the overall market, but also important investment targets for indexed products like ETF. The needs for market reflection and investment should both be taken into consideration in the design. According to characteristics of the Shenzhen market, taking 500 constituents can better combine the two functions of benchmark and investment. The fixed sample size of 500 constituents has been successfully used in several markets, such as S&P 500 Index, CSI 500 Index, etc. So it will be easy for investors to understand and accept, and is conducive to index promotion and product development.   From the above, the expansion of SZSE Component has taken market representativeness, perspectiveness and investment needs into account, and adapts to the mid-and-long term development trends of the capital market, complies with the prudence principle of benchmark index reconstruction, and is beneficial to maintain the stability of preparation scheme over a longer period.   From the point of expansion range, the number of Shenzhen listed companies has increased by 12.5 times since the launching of SZSE Component in 1995, while the number of constituents of the Index will be expanded by 11.5 times, keeping a consistent growth rate with the total number of listed companies.   IV. What characteristics will SZSE Component have after the expansion?   The new SZSE Component has been proven to be more representative and at reasonable valuation level by statistics.   First, outstanding performance with less fluctuation. During the period from the beginning of 2009 to the end of February 2015, the new SZSE Component has created an accumulated income of 157% in its simulation run, whereas the figure for the original SZSE Component is 81% during the same period, 82% for SSE Composite Index and 97% for CSI 300 Index. Along with the improved performance, the fluctuation rate for the new SZSE Component is falling, reporting an annualized fluctuation rate of 20.77% for the last two years, lower than the original SZSE Component. It reflects the growth and return advantage of emerging industries and SMEs.   Second, fully reflecting the characteristics of the Shenzhen market. After the reconstruction, the correlation coefficient between the new SZSE Component and SZSE Composite Index is 0.99, fully reflecting the characteristics of the Shenzhen market. Meanwhile, the difference between the new SZSE Component and SSE Composite Index becomes more notable. In the past five years (2009-20140), the income correlation between the original SZSE Component and SSE Composite Index and CSI 300 Index is 0.95 and 0.97 respectively, showing coincident movements. After the reconstruction, its correlation with SSE Composite Index is sharply reduced. As of the end of February 2015, their correlation for the last three years and the last one year is 0.86 and 0.80 respectively. For the same period, the correlation between NASDAQ 100 Stock Index and Dow Jones Index is 0.84 and 0.85 respectively, and the correlation between NASDAQ 100 Stock Index and S&P 500 Index is 0.86 and 0.75 respectively. After the reconstruction, the new SZSE Component will work in coordination with SSE Composite Index and CSI 300 Index, which is conducive to objectively reflecting the whole picture of China's securities market.   Third, reasonable valuation level. According to the latest statistics of sample stocks, the new Index reported a dynamic P/E ratio of 29.8 in 2014, lower than that of SZSE Composite Index, SZSE SME Index and SZSE ChiNext Index. In the sight of international situation, NASDAQ Composite Index reported a dynamic P/E ratio of 30 at the end of 2014 with an annual average ratio of 34. The 100 China concept stocks listed on NASDAQ, deducting loss-making companies, reported an average P/E ratio of 25. The valuation level of the new Index keeps in line with NASDAQ and China concept stocks with sound profitability.   V. What characteristics will the new Index have in terms of company structure?   First, market capitalization coverage will be greatly increased. The coverage will be increased from 18% to 61% and maintains at a high level for a medium and long term.   Second, more equilibrium distribution will be seen among different boards of the market. As of the end of February, the new Index has 52% constituents listed on the main board, 33% on the SME board and 15% on the ChiNext board, quite close to their capitalization proportion in the Shenzhen market. The 211 SME-listed companies and 90 ChiNext-listed companies (totally accounting for 60% in the constituents) have shown adequate representativeness for medium and small companies with high growth.   Third, industrial structure is in high consistency with the Shenzhen market. After the reconstruction, the weight of finance and real estate industries will reduce from 31% to 16% and the weight of consumer discretionary industry, including wine, will reduce from 28% to 17%; whereas the weight of information technology industry will rise from 12% to 18%, becoming the heaviest-weighted industry, the weight of raw material industry including new materials will rise from 2% to 12%, and the weight of medicine and healthcare industry will rise from 5% to 9%.   VI. How will the new Index position itself in the indices family?   The new Index will reflect the development of SMEs, innovative enterprises and emerging industries in the market. Working together with SSE Composite Index and CSI 300 Index, the new Index can mirror the market’s overall performance from a different side, similar to the relation among Dow Jones Index, S&P 500 Index and NASDAQ Index in the U.S.   In the Shenzhen market, the new Index will act as the benchmark for the entire market, while SME Index and ChiNext Index will act as the benchmarks for respective boards in the market.   The new Index also has the function of investing. SZSE 100 Index is the benchmark for large-caps in Shenzhen, and SZSE 300 Index is the benchmark for medium-caps and large caps. The function and position of the new Index, SZSE 100 Index and SZSE 300 Index corresponds to that of SSE Composite Index, SSE 50 Index and SSE 180 Index.   VII. Will the index reconstruction curse market volatility or influence on the running of other indices?   Currently, there are four fund companies, namely, China Southern Fund, SWS MU Fund, Rongtong Fund and Tianhong Fund, which have developed five index fund products tracing SZSE Component Index. As of the end of 2014, the total asset of such funds was RMB 7.8 billion. During the process of reconstruction research, SZSE has carried out plenty of communications with the four fund companies and adopted the opinions and suggestions raised by the fund managers.   In the reconstruction this time, a group of new constituent stocks will be added to the Index, which is quite similar to regular sample adjustment in nature. So no extra risk would occur to investment management. We believe careful preparation in advance and allowing more time for portfolio reallocation could achieve smooth operation for index funds.   VIII. What measures will be taken to protect the rights and interests of holders of index funds?   The official listing of the new Index will be arranged in two months after the disclosure of this announcement. SZSE and fund managers will make timely and sufficient information disclosure during such period.   Currently, there are five funds tracing SZSE Component Index, namely, China Southern SZSE Component ETF, China Southern SZSE Component ETF Feeder Fund, SWS MU SZSE Component Classified Fund, Rongtong SZSE Component Enhanced Fund and Tianhong SZSE Component Fund (LOF). Relevant measures and arrangements will be disclosed later. Investors can visit the websites of the fund companies for more information.   IX. Are there any similar index reconstruction cases at home or abroad?   Yes. Take S&P 500 Index for example. In 1941, its number of constituents was expanded from 233 to 416, and to 500 later; in 1976, finance stocks were added as constituents; in 1988, the restriction on number of constituents from single industry was removed. The constituents of Dow Jones Industrial Average Index were only 12 when launching in 1896, and expanded to 20 in 1916 and to 30 in 1928. The constituents of Hang Seng Index were only 33 when launching in 1964, and expanded to 38 in 2006 and to 50 in 2007.   In domestic markets, Shanghai Stock Exchange issued SSE 180 Index based on the expansion and reconstruction of SSE 30 Index in 2002. The sampling methodology of CSI 300 Index was changed after learning from international standard methods.

Wu Lijun, Board Chairman of SZSE, and His Delegation Visit Guizhou for Investigation
date: 2015-3-24
Recently, Wu Lijun, Board Chairman of SZSE, and his delegation visited Guizhou for investigation, and conducted talks with Zan Yiqin, a member of Standing Committee of Guizhou Provincial Committee and also the Executive Vice Governor of Guizhou Province, and Chen Gang, a member of Standing Committee of Guizhou Provincial Committee and also the secretary of Guiyang Municipal Party Committee. During the investigation Chairman Wu Lijun organized a colloquia among Guizhou companies listed on SZSE and investigated pre-IPO companies in Guiyang High-tech Zone.   Guizhou provincial and municipal leaders introduced the current economic development, transformation and upgrading of Guizhou, looking forward to promote economic and social development of Guizhou with a better leverage of multi-tiered capital market via a further deepened cooperation with SZSE. Chairman Wu Lijun asserted that SZSE had always been paying high attention to support the development of western areas by setting up a special team for business in the west and the West Incentive Fund to reward sponsor institutions of western companies listed on SZSE and encourage them to serve for the west. Located in the southwest and being of unique resource advantage, Guizhou in recent years shows a rapid and stable economic growth with startups and innovative enterprises springing up unceasingly. SZSE accumulates practical experience in serving enterprises, the local and the real economy over the past 25 years, forging a sound market foundation. For the next step, SZSE will seize the optimal chance of capital market reformation and development, rely on the resource allocation capability and innovation guiding function of multi-tiered capital market, and integrate SZSE supporting system into the startup and innovative system of the local, hence deepening the connection with Guizhou province and comprehensively supporting the local economic development of Guizhou.   On the colloquia among Guizhou companies listed on SZSE, representatives of those listed companies made self-introductions and discussed in-depth how to optimize the supervision and service for listed companies.   Chairman Wu Lijun pointed out that Guizhou listed companies generally showed a sound development trend with standardized operation and should further strengthen standardized operation to realize positive return for investors, while SZSE will seriously study those comments and suggestions from listed companies to better serve the real economy through improving its working pertinence and initiative.   Chairman Wu Lijun also reported working agenda of SZSE to those representatives of listed companies attending the colloquia. Recently, capital market reformation and innovation on various aspects is under acceleration. In accordance with the requirements of “New National Nine Positive Stimuli”, SZSE will combine the market context and focus on the perfection of four systems, namely multi-tiered market system, diversified product system, multi-governance self-supervision system and multi-dimensional service system, to comprehensively support the transformation and upgrading of the local economy.  Chairman Wu Lijun noted that SZSE had formulated a multi-tiered market covering main board, SME board and ChiNext board, and the three distinguishing boards complement each other, benefiting a service targeted for enterprises of different types. The main board gathers a host of competitive blue-chip companies with a high market-oriented operation level. For the next step, SZSE will actively guide the large-scale quality enterprises to be listed on the main board and serve for reformation of state-owned enterprises. Enterprises on the SME board are mainly from manufacturing industry and the people’s livelihood industry, which realizes a continuous stable growth on their business performance via constantly transformation and upgrading, embodying their vigor and vitality. For the SME board, the next step is to expand the scale, optimize the industry structure and seek for a continuous development and expansion. The ChiNext board has become the cluster of startups and innovative enterprises and mainly serves for the national self-innovation strategy. As for the ChiNext board, the next step is to focus on improving its inclusiveness and coverage and establishing expert level. For instance, to allow access of those to-be profitable Internet enterprises and scien-tech innovative enterprises to the ChiNext board, to explore the market upgrading and switching mechanism, like the pilot program of switching an enterprise of National Equities Exchange and Quotations and regional equity market into the ChiNext board, and to constantly improve refinancing, merge and acquisition, restructuring and equity incentive system, setting up a decent supporting platform for innovative enterprises to achieve superior growth by utilizing capital market. 

SZSE Holds the 7th Session of Listed Companies’ Open House Program for Foreign Investors
date: 2015-3-23
Shenzhen Stock Exchange held the 7th Session of Listed Companies’ Open House Program for Foreign Investors on March 16 and 17, 2015. More than 30 institutional investor representatives coming from the United States, Germany, France, Canada, Singapore, South Korea, Hong Kong, etc. visited and investigated seven listed companies, which were Bauing Decoration, Capchem, Woer, Glory Medical, Hytera, SZZT and Evenwin.   The seven companies visited, five of which are listed on the SME board and two of which are listed on the ChiNext board, engage in the industries of architectural decoration, new materials, medical engineering, private network communications, financial electronics and precision manufacturing respectively. The visitors listened to the companies’ introduction of business situations, talked to the senior executives face-to-face, and stepped into their labs and workshops to investigate the production and operations.   The visitors were not only QFIIs but also other professional institutional investors, such as sovereign wealth funds, asset management companies, mutual funds and investment banks, who were expecting to invest in the mainland markets through the mechanism of “Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect”. These investors focus on the fundamental analysis and research on listed companies, and pursue long-term investment and value investment.   The active communications among foreign investors and listed companies were focused on topics like market position in the industry and distinguish advantage of the companies, a particular business or market’s contribution to the growth, prospects of overseas market development and future growth, etc. The questions were answered based on information disclosure principles by senior executives of the companies, who welcomed more attention, constructive comments and suggestions from foreign investors   Six sessions of similar activities have been organized and held by SZSE before, including a special activity of ChiNext-Listed Companies’ Open House Program for Foreign Investors, which covered outstanding listed companies in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Hangzhou and were participated by over 200 foreign investor representatives in total. This time’s activity was part of SZSE’s 3.15 investor protection serial activities, succeeding the launching ceremony for SZSE WeChat Public Service Platform and the 3rd Session of SZSE’s Open House Program for Investors, and the 22nd Session of Securities Brokers’ Open House Program for Investors.   Under the uniform deployment of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, SZSE went to Europe and carried out roadshow for China capital market in September, 2012, when the construction of a service system for foreign institutional investors was started. SZSE has actively optimized foreign investor services, improved English website and opened a special zone for QFIIs and a mailbox for foreign investors, made weekly news in English language to extend market updates to foreign investors, propelled listed companies to disclose English financial indicators and announcements, and continuously explored new forms of foreign investor relations management services.   As of the end of September, 2012, QFIIs were holding market capitalization of RMB 53.4 billion (accounting for 1.19% of the total free-float market capitalization) in the Shenzhen market, including RMB 10.7 billion in the SME board and RMB 1.5 billion in the ChiNext board. As of early March, 2015, QFIIs were holding market capitalization of RMB 163.4 billion (accounting for 1.43% of the total free-float market capitalization) in the Shenzhen market, including RMB 45.3 billion in the SME board and RMB 13.7 billion in the ChiNext board.

SZSE Launches WeChat Public Service Platform, a One-stop Platform Safeguarding Investors’ Rights and Interests
date: 2015-3-17
 – SZSE Serial Activities for Investor Protection Held on 3.15 Consumers’ Rights Day     Taking the opportunity of March 15 – International Day for Protecting Consumers’ Rights, Shenzhen Stock Exchange organized a series of investor protection activities, in a bid to strengthen the awareness of investors’ rights and interests and push forward investor education work. These activities included the launching ceremony for SZSE WeChat Public Service Platform, the 3rd Session of SZSE’s Open House Program for Investors, the 13th Session of Investors Rights Protection Online Consultation, and the release of 2014 Retail Investor Survey Report.   SZSE Launches WeChat Public Service Platform   With the advent of Mobile Internet Era, more and more investors use mobile terminals such as mobile phones to obtain investment information and trade stocks. The securities market has already entered into the “micro-age”. Under such background, SZSE opened its official Weibo and WeChat on December 1, 2013, which have drawn close attention of more than 3 million people. In order to further improve services, SZSE started the development of Wechat Public Service Platform at the end of 2014, which was completed in three months as scheduled.   More than 30 investors from different securities companies attended the launching ceremony. They listened to the function introduction of SZSE Wechat Public Service Platform, and took the lead in experiencing related functions by scanning WeChat QR codes.   Reflecting SZSE’s core ideology of “Serving the Market, Serving the Public”, the Wechat Public Service Platform is a significant innovation of “Embracing the Micro-age, Serving at Zero Distance”, and is another great move of SZSE to perfect the investor-oriented platform of “Service 365”, which greatly enhances the information transparency of SZSE and promotes interactive communications with market players, introduced by an officer of SZSE.   It is learned that SZSE Wechat Public Service Platform is an all-in-one investor service platform for information publishing, online interaction and statistical management. With three basic functional modules covering News Information, My Services and Interactive Activities, the platform can realize intelligent response, transferring and leaving messages, graphic interaction, information query, polls and surveys, activity participation, etc., making it easy for investors and the public to acquire market information, participate in interactions and learn investment knowledge whenever and wherever possible.   “Service 365” – a One-stop Platform Safeguarding Investors’ Rights and Interests   According to the officer, SZSE has always been attaching importance to investor protection and service, and has spent great efforts in building up a one-stop platform of “Service 365”. Such efforts include: - first, continuously carrying out the 3 theme education activities, i.e. Open House Programs for Investors to step into listed companies, securities brokers and SZSE, promoting “face-to-face” dialogues between investors and market players and guiding rational investment; - second, constructing a six-in-one public service platform which is consisted with Easy IR, Easy Voting, Easy IK, Easy Analysis, Easy Calling and Easy Opinion Soliciting, promoting benign interaction between investors and market players, cultivating market equity culture, and enhancing the rational participation capacity of small and medium investors; - third, improving and integrating the 5 information publishing platforms for investor education, i.e. traditional media, Internet, Weibo, WeChat, mobile APP.   Moreover, an IPO Information Query Zone was added to the official website of SZSE last year, providing investors with one-stop IPO information inquiry service and further enhancing its transparency; and a Commitments Management System was launched, making public the commitments made by all SZSE-listed companies to investors for their convenient understanding of and supervision over commitments performance.   The representative of Investor Protection Bureau of China Securities Regulatory Commission attended the launching ceremony. He introduced the key work of the Bureau and congratulated the launch of SZSE Wechat Public Service Platform. He pointed out that on the one hand the Platform complied with the new trend of Internet development, innovating the ways of investors education and service, improving its timeliness and convenience; on the other hand it provided a new channel for the convenient communication between investors and the exchange and listed companies, making real-time multiparty interaction possible. Meanwhile, the WeChat Public Service can collect investors’ opinions and suggestions on regulatory policies and market news in a timely manner, shortening the distance between investors and the exchange and listed companies. It’s a significant practice for SZSE to implement the State’s Opinion of “keeping communication channels open with small and medium investors”.   It is known that as part of SZSE’s 3.15 investor protection serial activities, a Securities Brokers’ Open House Program for Investors will be held on March 16, the 7th Session of Listed Companies’ Open House Program for Foreign Investors will be held on March 16 and 17, and the 133rd Session of Listed Companies’ Open House Program for Investors will be held on March 18.  

The 2nd Regular Sample Adjustment of the Year for ChiNext Index
date: 2015-3-9
Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. jointly announced to make the 2nd regular adjustment, in line with the index compiling rule, to the sample stocks of ChiNext Index, effective as of the first trading day of April, 2015.   According to the announcement, 6 sample stocks will be adjusted to ChiNext Index, with Lanxum, Flush Info, Infotech, etc., to be swapped in as sample stocks, whereas Jinfu New Material, Yonker, EASA, etc., to be swapped out of the sample stocks pool.   The feature of emerging industries reflected by ChiNext Index is more prominent after several regular sample adjustments, which greatly distinguishes itself from other major indices. Information and technology sector has contributed 37 sample stocks to the index, weighting over 40% as the greatest weighted industry. And the total weight of 5 emerging sectors, including information and technology, health care, consumer discretionary, consumer staples, telecommunication services, increases to 80% approximately.   As revealed from the 3rd quarter reports of 2014, the operating income and net profit of the sample stocks increased by 39% and 28% respectively after the sample adjustment, whereas the pre-adjustment figures were 36% and 21%. Meanwhile, the 6 sample stocks to be swapped in are associated with the Internet or software industry, reflecting ChiNext board’s advantage in reserving companies of emerging industries.   More specific material on the Index can be found on the website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and the website of CNI Index (www.cnindex.com.cn).

A Seminar Held in Jinan on Micro-credit Companies’ Linkage to Multi-tiered Capital Market
date: 2015-3-5
To discuss the sustainable development of small-micro finance under new era of economic development and facilitate a better linkage between small-loan companies and multi-tiered capital market, a seminar was held on Mar 3rd, 2015 in Jinan about small-loan companies’ linkage to multi-tiered capital market, aiming at strengthening small-loan companies’ role in providing comprehensive financial services for medium, small and micro-sized enterprises and a better support for the development of agriculture, rural areas and farmers and medium, small and micro-sized enterprises. The seminar was hosted by Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. with China Association of Micro-credit, Shandong Provincial Financial Office and Shenzhen Stock Exchange as co-sponsors, on which issues were explored such as global development of small-loan business and its experience, the importance and significance of small-loan asset securitization, listed prospects and financing channels of small-loan companies. Xia Geng, Vice Governor of Shandong Province, Min Luhao, President of China Association of Micro-credit, Li Yongjian, Director of Shandong Provincial Financial Office and Song Liping, President and CEO of SZSE, all the four leaders above attended and addressed the seminar. Guests also included those who lead small-loan companies, associations of small-loan companies and financial offices nationwide, totaling over 650.   With the current financing plight of small-loan business, some small-loan companies acquire the linkage to capital market via listing on multi-tiered capital market or issuing asset securitization products, effectively improving their standardized level, promoting sustainable development and broadening financing channels. Doctor Wang Jun, Chief Financial Expert from Global Finance and Market Bureau of World Bank, elaborated with a global perspective on the evolving process of China’s small-micro finance from germination to comprehensive and rapid development. Meanwhile, he stressed the importance of sustainable development of small-micro finance business, which should be kept at a regression-based state at present. Currently, China’s small-loan companies have already edged themselves into overseas capital market, such as NASDAQ and Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Domestic multi-tiered capital market, NEEQ and regional equity market for instance, also witnessed in the past two years a rapid increase in the number of listed small-loan companies. But still no small-loan companies get listed on SSE or SZSE. Chen Feng, Associate Director of Listing Promotion Department of SZSE introduced the market cultivation system of SZSE and gave an outlook on listed prospects of small-loan companies under a background of revolution on registration system.   With respect to the financing problems confronting micro-credit companies, Wang Dongming, Chairman of the Board of CITIC Securities, elaborated the significance of asset securitization for micro-credit companies through practical cases. He said, securitization could not only effectively revitalize stock assets and broaden financing channels, but could also enrich investment varieties in the secondary market. Zhang Guoxiang, Chairman of the Board of Chongqing Hanhua Financial Holding Co., Ltd., discussed the innovative financing measures from the aspects of debt financing and equity financing. Liang Yuyin, Manager of SZSE Fixed Income Department, gave a detailed introduction to the procedures for asset-backed securities getting listed on SZSE under the system of record-filing through securitization cases such as the Alibaba Micro Credit Securitization Product. For the past two years, there have been 13 asset-backed products of micro-credit getting listed on SZSE, with issuing volume of RMB 7.593 billion in total.   Song Liping, President and CEO of SZSE, who believes in the unique and irreplaceable role of micro-credit companies in serving real economy, especially local economy, said that we should have full confidence in the micro-credit industry, and our faith in the development of Inclusive Financial System should remain unswervingly. The exploration of linkage channels between micro-credit companies and multi-tiered capital market can not only provide a new platform for the development of micro-credit companies, but will also become a new growth pole of capital market. Currently, the enhancement of standardized operation level by micro-credit companies and micro-credit industry is not only the key for them to open the door to capital market, but also the inevitable course must be taken for the sustainable development of micro-credit finance.   From the point of current development situation of China’s micro-credit industry, there are 8791 small-loan companies as of the end of 2014, with outstanding loans of RMB 942 billion. Loan increment for the year of 2014 is RMB 122.8 billion. A total of 109948 employees are serving these companies, absorbing capitals as much as RMB 828.306 billion. The number of micro-credit companies ranks the top in Jiangsu Province, where a total of 631 companies are absorbing capitals of RMB 92.991 billion, with outstanding loans of RMB 114.666 billion.  As being in the period of fast growth, the micro-credit industry is crying for omnibearing training and extensive communication for the sake of the industry’s healthy and orderly development, which is also an important task of China Association of Micro-credit. Based on such purpose, a training base project for China’s micro-credit industry in Shandong was launched at the seminar. Meanwhile, China Inclusive Financial Research Center introduced to participants the Research Report on Inclusive Financial Situations in Shandong Province and other research achievements made based on their extensive investigation in Shandong.

Companies’ High Growth Fully Reflects the Market Positioning and Characteristics of the ChiNext Board
date: 2015-3-3
As of February 28, all the 421 companies listed on the ChiNext board have disclosed their major financial data for 2014 in forms of preliminary earnings estimates, annual reports and listing announcements as required. The data indicates that these companies actively adapt themselves to the “New Normal” economic growth, continue to intensify innovation, and take the initiative to transform and upgrade themselves by extensively using capital market instruments like M&A, equity incentive and re-financing. The companies’ good achievements have fully reflected the market positioning and characteristics of the ChiNext board.   In 2014, the ChiNext board reported aggregate revenue of RMB 343.146 billion, averagely RMB 815 million per company, up 27.03% against the last year; and aggregate net profit of RMB 39.353 billion, averagely RMB 93 million per company, up 22.71% against the last year. The growth rates for revenue and net profit reached the highest level in the last three years. Moreover, the net profit growth rate, for the first time in three years, got close to the revenue growth rate, realizing the synchronous increase in profit and revenue.   From the perspective of revenue growth, most companies realized year-on-year growth, and some are high-growth in revenue. In all the 421 companies, 359 companies’ revenue rose, among which 64 companies such as Irtouch, Shanghai Ganglian and Evercontaining Electric increased by more than 50% and 151 companies increased by more than 30%.   From the perspective of net profit growth, nearly 70% of the companies realized year-on-year growth, up 10% against 2013. In 2014, net profit of 157 companies increased by more than 30%, 103 companies increased by more than 50% and 60 companies such as East Money, Furui and HC Semitek increased by more than 100% .   In 2014, 97 companies on the ChiNext board made revenue of over RMB 1 billion, 10 companies made revenue of over RMB 3 billion, and 3 companies, including Shanghai Ganglian, Leshi Internet and Bluefocus, made revenue of over RMB 5 billion. The aggregate revenue reported by the top 50 companies was RMB 131.308 billion, accounting for 38.26% of the revenue made by the entire board. From the point of net profit, 8 companies in 2014 realized net profit of over RMB 500 million, 24 companies realized net profit of over RMB 300 million, and 130 companies realized net profit of over RMB 100 million. The aggregate net profit reported by the top 50 companies was RMB 17.311 billion, accounting for 43.99% of the net profit made by the entire board. Listed companies of considerable scale are emerging from the ChiNext board.   From the perspective of industry distribution, companies engaged in the industries of broadcasting, film and television, computer, communication equipment manufacturing, software and information technology services, commercial services, health, ecological protection, culture and education, etc. outperformed the average level in 2014. Among these industries, companies in the industries of computer, communication and other electronic equipment manufacturing performed outstandingly, reporting increases in operating income and net profit by 32.33% and 45.23% respectively; companies in the industries of broadcasting, film and television reported increases in operating income and net profit by 46.40% and 33.42% respectively; and companies in the industries of software and information technology services reported increases in operating income and net profit by 30.24% and 31.56% respectively.  From the perspective of strategic emerging industries, 305 out of 421 companies are engaged in strategic emerging industries, and their revenue and net profit increased by 31.29% and 24.29% respectively in 2014, outperforming the average level of the board. Among them, companies in the information technology industry of new generation reported increases in operating income and net profit by 48.67% and 43.01% respectively, followed by companies in the new energy industry who reported increases in operating income and net profit by 37.23% and 38.61% respectively.

Transition and Upgrading Fuels Performance Growth for SME board-listed Companies in 2014
date: 2015-3-3
China’s economy development has entered into the phase of “New Normal”, and steady growth, mode transferring, structure adjustment have become the main vocal of economic work. As the outstanding representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises in our country, companies listed on the SME board play a pivotal role in the promotion of real economy development, independent innovation and transition and upgrading, solving employment problems and safeguarding and improving people’s livelihood. How’s their performance under the situation of “New Normal”? The preliminary earnings estimate and annual reports disclosed before February 28, 2015 have given us answers. Statistics show that remarkable effects have been made by companies listed on the SME board in transition and upgrading. In spite of the slowing growth rate in operating income, the net profit growth rate increases significantly. Rapid development has been seen in high and new technology enterprises, strategic emerging industry enterprises and productive service enterprises under national policy support, reflecting the strong internal vigor of small and medium-sized enterprises.   In 2014, all the 739 companies listed on the SME board made an average operating income of RMB 2.782 billion, an increase of 12.22% over the previous year. The growth rate was lower than the 17.63% of 2013, reflecting the actual difficulties confronting SMEs in the complex and volatile economic environment at home and abroad. The average net profit was RMB 175 million, an increase of 13.10% over the previous year. The growth rate was much stronger than the 8.37% of 2013 and was the highest figure in the last three years. The average ROE hit 8.48%, reflecting sound profitability. The 39 IPO and sub-IPO stocks getting listed during 2014 and the first two months of 2015 were doing quite well with an average growth rate for operating income of 27.24% and that for net profit of 42.30%. In the 15 industries involving the SME board companies, 10 industries such as finance, culture, and software and information technology services witnessed a YOY net profit growth in 2014, among which the predominating manufacturing companies made a net profit growth of 12.94% on average; while 5 industries such as agriculture, mining, real estate, retail, and food and beverage saw decline in performance to different degrees. The polarization phenomenon still exists.   Most of the companies performed quite well in 2014. In all the 739 companies listed on the SME board, 540 companies and 471 companies achieved growth in operating income and net profit in 2014 respectively, accounting for 73.07% and 63.73% respectively. The number of companies reporting high growth was increasing in 2014. 241 companies made a net profit growth rate of more than 30% or turned losses into gains, accounting for 32.61%, while the figures of 2013 was 222 companies and 30.04%.   The SME board has gathered a large number of leading companies in sub-industries. 286 companies have fist products or services ranking top one in the domestic market, and 108 companies rank top three in the global markets. These sub-industrial leaders achieved an average grow in operating income of 16.53% and an average grow in net profit of 17.50%, obviously higher than the average level of the SME board. They played a good demonstration role in the economic development. Some companies edged themselves into high-quality blue-chips by taking advantage of the capital markets. In 2014, 34 companies listed on the SME board made an operating income of over RMB 10 billion, and 17 companies’ net profit exceeded RMB 1 billion. The top 30 companies in net profit mainly concentrated in the fields of finance, equipment manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, electronics, and information technology. These companies made an average operating income of RMB 13.066 billion or 14.89% growth and an average net profit of RMB 1.624 billion or 25.45% growth, among which 18 companies, including Guosen Securities, Suning Commerce, Goldwind Science and Technology, Kangde Xin, DHC Software, Wanda, Han’s Laser, Kingenta, Goertek, and Salubris, achieved a net profit growth of more than 20%.   Companies listed on the SME board are closely related to people’s livelihood. Roughly 175 companies involved in the fields with direct relation to people’s livelihood, making growths in operating income and net profit in 2014 of 8.48% and 2.49% on average respectively, lower than the average level of the board. Industries which contain certain technologies in nature or higher value-added products and services, such as culture media, pharmaceuticals, small household appliances, jewelries, chemical fertilizers, and decoration, achieved a net profit growth of more than 10% on average; while traditional industries, such as aquatic livestock farming, food, retail, textile and clothing, showed poor performance due to the declining agricultural prices and consumer recession.   Companies listed on the SME board are not only closely related to people’s livelihood, but also represent an important force which propels independent innovation and industrial upgrading. In all the 739 companies listed on the SME board, there are 590 high and new technology enterprises and 238 strategic emerging industry enterprises. In 2014, the high and new technology enterprises made growths in operating income and net profit of 14.49% and 15.79% on average respectively, and the strategic emerging industry enterprises made growths in operating income and net profit of 18.09% and 26.39% on average respectively. In addition, there are 60 productive service enterprises on the SME board, distributing in the fields of information technology services, third party logistics, energy conservation and environment protection, electronic commerce, and brand building. In 2014, these companies achieved growths in operating income and net profit of 25.87% and 38.80% on average respectively. Good development prospects for high and new technology enterprises, strategic emerging industry enterprises and productive service enterprises can be seen from their obviously higher growth rate in operating income and net profit.   From the preliminary earnings estimate and public disclosure, the main reason that SME board-listed companies realized rapid development lies in the vigorous promotion of transition and upgrading. Main measures for transition and upgrading include the followings: - first, continuously increasing investment in R&D and strengthening the independent innovation. Taking Dahua Technology in the security and protection industry for example, it invests nearly 10% of the sales revenue in R&D each year, making a large number of patents. - second, innovating management modes and strengthening cost control. Taking Goldwind Science and Technology and Yasha Decoration for example, they effectively save costs through the implementation of delicacy management. - third, innovating business models. Taking ORG in the metal packaging industry for example, through its continuous innovation of technology, service and mode, it can provide customers with integrated packaging solutions including product planning, packaging design and manufacturing, food and beverage filling and informatization and network marketing services. Taking Haid Group in the fodder industry for another example, by implementing the trinity strategy of “R&D, procurement and service”, it realized increases in both revenue and profit against the poor market in the overall industry. - fourth, relying on the Internet and cultural creativity to realize the transition and upgrading of traditional industries. Taking Alpha Animation in the toy industry for example, it establishes an entire industrial chain of Internet culture entertainment by means of combining toys with animations, films, TVs and games. - fifth, implementing brand strategy and intensifying market development force. Taking Semir Garment in the clothing industry for example, it realized a profit increase of more than 20% by positively operating a new brand, developing creative designs, setting up an efficient logistics distribution system, and developing new channels like e-commerce. and - sixth, perfecting the industrial chains and expanding industrial layout. Taking Haige Communications in the military industry for example, it actively expands high-end manufacturing and modern service industry, and realizes the transition and upgrading from traditional communication, navigation equipment R&D into integrated electronic information industry, including system integration, advanced manufacturing and high-end information services.   Besides, the rapid development for SME board-listed companies also thanks to the policy preference resulting from the deepening of capital market reform. Taking M&A for example, there were 80 companies which concluded 87 transactions concerning material assets restructuring or assets purchase via share offering in the last three years. The transaction amount valued RMB 96.082 billion. In 2014, the 80 companies made operating income and net profit growths of 22.57% and 35.56% on average respectively. According to the annual report of Shanghai RAAS, the company completed two horizontal M&As, which greatly contributed to the increase of product varieties and raw materials supply, making it the leading enterprise in the industry. Active M&A and restructuring optimizes the allocation of resources, improves the efficiency of resource use, and plays a positive role in promoting performance development for companies listed on the SME board.

Stock Market Holiday Schedule (2015)
date: 2015-2-17
1. New Year:  The market will close on 1 January (Thursday) and resume trading on 5 January (Monday).   2. Spring Festival: The market will close from 18 February (Wednesday) to 24 February (Tuesday), and resume trading on 25 February (Wednesday).   3. Qingming Festival:  The market will close from 5 April (Sunday) to 6 April (Monday), and resume trading on 7 April (Tuesday).   4. Labour Day: The market will close on 1 May (Friday) and resume trading on 4 May (Monday).   5. Dragon Boat Festival:  The market will close from 20 June (Saturday) to 22 June (Monday), and resume trading on 23 June (Tuesday).   6. Mid-Autumn Festival: The market will close on 27 September (Sunday), and resume trading on 28 September (Monday).   7. National Day:  The market will close from 1 October (Thursday) to 7 October (Wednesday), and resume trading on 8 October (Thursday).   * The market will close on weekends. * For clearing and settlement arrangement, please refer to the notice of the China Securities Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd.    

SZSE Revises Guidelines on Listed Company Standard Operation and Completes the Tenth Cleanup of Business Rules
date: 2015-2-12
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) has recently revised and promulgated the Guidelines on Listed Company Standard Operation governing three boards based on the opinions extensively solicited from listed companies.   As introduced by an officer of SZSE, the amendments this time focus on the implementation of new rules and optimization of the supervision mechanism centered by information disclosure.   Since 2010, the Company Law and the Securities Law have been revised in succession, loosening regulations of registered capital and tender offers of listed companies; the State Council’s opinions on strengthening the protection of medium and small investors’ legitimate rights and interests and promoting the healthy development of capital market have been released; rules governing acquisition and restructuring of listed companies have been amended and delisting guidance and several listed company regulatory guidelines have been formulated by CSRC. During the rules revision, SZSE has adopted the latest supervisory requirements in the aforesaid laws and regulations, so as to promote the rule-based market governance and supervision. Besides, SZSE has also adhered to the supervisory concept which takes information disclosure as the center throughout the revision and greatly reduced ex ante examinations based on the thoroughly review of original supervisory requirements, in a bid to encourage self-governance of companies and propel market players to bear their due responsibilities.   According to the officer, the revision was carried out following the principles of transparent and democratic rule-making. SZSE issued drafts for comments in the Special Business Zone for Listed Companies to solicit opinions from all listed companies of three boards, and made further optimization by absorbing advices received from activities such as Listed Companies’ Open House Program for Investors.   In addition, SZSE launched the tenth cleanup of rules in order to build up a simple and efficient system of business rules. It released the 6th List of Abolished Rules, repealing 39 rules. The remaining 125 valid rules after the cleanup are covering different market players and business types in the multi-level system of business rules. For the next step, SZSE will continue to improve the long-term mechanism for the dynamic cleanup of business rules, laying a rule foundation for self-discipline.

SZSE Makes Another Breakthrough in Exchange-traded REITs
date: 2015-2-9
Recently, “CITIC-ChinaAMC Suning Yunchuang Special Asset-backed Plan” (hereinafter referred to as “Suning Yunchuang”) issued by China Asset Management Co., Ltd. has completed record-filing procedures with Asset Management Association of China (AMAC), and will be transferred by listing on Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) as of February 6, 2015. As the first exchange-traded Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT) launched after the implementation of ABS record-filing system, “Suning Yunchuang” represents another innovative attempt by SZSE after the launch of “CITIC Qihang Special Asset Management Plan” (“CITIC Qihang”).   Suning Commerce Group Co., Ltd. is under the transition of operation and business model. Through the launch of “Suning Yunchuang”, the company securitizes 11 of its self-owned stores, which innovates asset operation mode, revitalizes stock assets effectively, and is in line with the company’s Internet strategy. As the first exchange-traded REIT which takes mature commercial properties as underlying assets of securitization, “Suning Yunchuang” sets an example in the industry by providing a brand-new mode of operating and managing commercial properties. Characterized by long development and payback period and large investment volume, commercial property development cannot completely fulfill by bank loans. The use of asset securitization helps to broaden direct financing channels and solves long-term capital needs of commercial properties.   China’s economy development has entered into the “New Normal” phase, which desiderates further innovation in finance to serve and support real economy. In 2014, China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) put forth Researching and Establishing REITs System and Related Product Operation Model and Plan in its Opinions on Furthering the Innovative Development of Securities Institutions. Meanwhile, the issuance of asset-backed securitization was changed from administrative approval system into record-filing system, which substantially increased its issuance efficiency. Recently, the Guiding Opinions of the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development on Accelerating the Cultivation and Development of the Housing Rental Market has been promulgated, requiring all cities to carry out pilot programs of REITs and gradually extend to other areas. The aforesaid moves indicate that the market condition and policy environment for REITs has become mature gradually, and the hard-won historical opportunity has been brought to REITs.   SZSE has been embarked on REITs research ever since 2003, and has cooperated with related market players in designing products and reserving projects since 2006. It also actively participated in the institutional design and project demonstration of REITs organized by CSRC. SZSE has made solid preparation for launching REITs products. Issuing of “Suning Yunchuang” is the first time for companies listed on the SME board to raise funds via asset-backed securitization. Along with financial innovative instruments rolling out, ways and means for SZSE to serve listed companies are becoming more and more diversified and its comprehensive financial service ability is further enhanced.   With the successive listing of “CITIC Qihang” and “Suning Yunchuang”, certain demonstration effect of exchange-traded REITs will be formed in SZSE. For the next step, on the basis of summarizing product operational experience and managing risk control, SZSE will intensify its efforts on ABS innovation and subsequent product development, enrich investment choices of ABS products, promote REITs products oriented to public investors, enlarge its issuing scale, and strive to form a REITs board for ABS in SZSE.     Product Introduction: “Suning Yunchuang” is raising RMB 4.395 billion from qualified institutional investors via issuance of asset-backed securitization. Investors subscribe for a PE fund, which is finally used to purchase 11 self-owned stores of Suning Commerce Group Co., Ltd., founded by CITIC Goldstone Fund Management Company Limited. The mentioned properties are under the management of the PE fund. Investors obtain rents and other properties operating income according to transaction documents.

Wu Lijun, Board Chairman of SZSE Visits Hong Kong, Promoting Shenzhen-Hong Kong Cooperation
date: 2015-2-3
A team led by Wu Lijun, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) has recently paid a visit to Hong Kong, meeting with the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) and Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission (HKSFC). They exchanged working ideas with Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited and had a group discussion with some market players located in Hong Kong.   During the visit, the preparing progress of “Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect” was introduced by Chairman Wu, who stressed the significant meaning of interconnection and interworking between Shenzhen and Hong Kong. By absorbing the pilot experience from “Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect”, SZSE will work closely with Hong Kong Stock Exchange to explore ways to broaden methods and contents of cooperation and jointly propel the construction of “Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect” and the internationalization of A-share market. Both exchanges agreed to adhere to the following three principles in designing schemes for “Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect”: - first, to keep the basic framework and model the same with “Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect” with market players’ business and technical system architecture unchanged; - second, to reflect the reciprocity principle and highlight the features of multi-level and multi-product of both markets; to consider expanding the scope of underlying securities based on “Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect”, so as to put the general requirement of “higher level and wider scope” into practice; and - third, to design schemes and optimize services on the basis of market demands, and to implement the schemes in a well-advised and well-organized manner.   At present, both exchanges have completed scheme design and started the development of technical systems. Once approved by both regulators, they will organize business and technical preparation and actively propel the implementation. Both of the exchanges agreed to strengthen the comprehensive and pragmatic cooperation under the guidelines of “deeper, broader and more innovative”. Besides, Chairman Wu also shared information about the construction of Qianhai Platform and the Technical Platform for the Mutual Recognition to Cross-border Funds. In a bid to deepening the services in the development and opening up in Qianhai, SZSE will actively take part in the construction of the Cross-border Trading Platform in Qianhai and explore the cooperation between Shenzhen and Hong Kong adhering to “Relying on Hong Kong, Serving Mainland China, and Facing the World”. The move is conducive to giving play to the superimposed policy advantages and geographical advantages in Qianhai, expanding mainland’s opening degree to Hong Kong, and widening the development space of the securities services in Hong Kong.   The interconnection and interworking between Shenzhen and Hong Kong is highly recognized by the government, regulators and market players in Hong Kong, who believe that it is an important part of the Service and Trade Liberalization between Guangdong and Hong Kong, and is good for Hong Kong to play the role as an offshore RMB and international financial center and promote the development of real economy in mainland China. Officers of HKMA and HKSFC said in the meeting that they will actively promote the smooth implementation of “Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect”, accelerate the construction of the Technical Platform for the Mutual Recognition to Cross-border Funds, and support the deepening cooperation between Shenzhen and Hong Kong.

SZSE Revises Ancillary Regulations for Delisting, Further Optimizing the Delisting Mechanism
date: 2015-2-3
In order to implement the CSRC’s Several Opinions on Renovating, Improving and Strictly Implementing the Delisting System of Listed Companies (“Delisting Opinions”), further optimize delisting working mechanism and protect the legitimate rights and interests of investors, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) has solicited opinions from all sides and made amendments to the two ancillary regulations of Implementation Measures on Re-listing of Delisting Companies (“Re-listing Measures”) and Special Regulation on Business during Delisting Transitional Period (“Transitional Period Regulation”) on the basis of the revised The Rule on Share Listing and Rules Governing the Listing of Shares on the ChiNext Board of Shenzhen Stock Exchange.   The delisting system of listed companies is a fundamental system in the capital market, said by an officer of SZSE, the delisting system reform this time follows the principles of “Marketization, Legalization and Normalization”, which further enriches the contents of delisting and has made significant breakthrough in compulsory delisting for serious violators. The recent amendments to the Re-listing Measures and Transitional Period Regulation shows another significant move of SZSE to effectively adhere to the Delisting Opinions and strictly implement the delisting system, succeeding the previous amendments to The Rule on Share Listing and Rules Governing the Listing of Shares on the ChiNext Board of Shenzhen Stock Exchange.   Based on the re-listing requirements prescribed in The Rule on Share Listing (Amended in 2014), the Re-listing Measures revised the specific requirements for re-listing application, acceptance and approval, and made differentiated regulations on different cases of proactive delisting and compulsory delisting. According to the spirits of Delisting Opinions, Transitional Period Regulation amended regulations related to the delisting transitional period by making it clear that companies subject to compulsory delisting must provide institutional arrangements during delisting transitional period, and optimized the management system of qualified investors during delisting transitional period. This time’s amendments to the two ancillary regulations further specified the business process of re-listing, enhanced the operability of delisting transitional period, optimized ancillary working mechanism for share delisting, and strengthened the protection for listed companies and investors.   SZSE is the subject of liabilities in the implementation of the delisting system, according to the officer of SZSE, SZSE will be in strict accordance with Delisting Opinions, The Rule on Share Listing (Amended in 2014) and relevant ancillary regulations, intensify its efforts in the delisting system reform and resolutely safeguard the seriousness and authoritativeness of the delisting system.

SZSE Amends Business Rules for Major Assets Restructuring
date: 2015-1-22
The Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) has recently amended the Business Rules for Major Assets Restructuring (the “Business Rules”) to facilitate relevant business by listed companies.   The following amendments are made: 1) restructuring events are divided into two types subject to whether administrative permissions are required, and different disclosure procedures will be adopted; 2) disclosure requirements in respect of commitments made by related parties in the restructuring, assessments or valuations and earnings forecasts, filling measures for dilution of earnings per share, etc. are further specified; and 3) supervisory transparency is further enhanced by requesting listed companies to disclose the contents of SZSE enquires about non-administrative permission types of restructuring and the situations of amendments to restructuring plans.   To further enhance the approval transparency of M&A and restructuring events and realize full openness on approval processes, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) has recently began to make public the feedbacks put forth during the approval processes and corresponding replies from applicants. In a bid to implement the CSRC arrangements, relevant disclosure requirements are detailed in the amendments to the Business Rules: 1) listed companies shall disclose the situations and contents of feedbacks from CSRC during the approval process no later than the next trading day upon receiving them; 2) within 30 days upon receiving the feedbacks, listed companies shall actively prepare for reply materials and disclose their contents after completing the required decision-making procedures; related securities intermediaries shall at the same time conduct due diligence to issues involved in the feedbacks or issue supplementary opinions; and 3) listed companies shall submit reply materials to the CSRC immediately after disclosing their contents; in the event of failure to submit reply material to the CSRC within 30 days upon receiving the feedbacks, listed companies shall disclose progressing situations of the major assets restructuring and reasons of the failure to provide timely replies on the next trading day of the deadline.

SZSE Releases 2014 Self-discipline Supervision Work Report
date: 2015-1-20
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) has recently released its 2014 Self-discipline Supervision Work Report, which covers the main tasks of institution construction, regulatory enforcement, regulatory transition, standardization and innovation, and reinforcement of medium and small investor protection and risk prevention and control undertaken in 2014.   According to the Report, achievements have been made by SZSE in deepening the reform in key areas, promoting the regulatory transition, carrying out standardization and innovation activities pursuant to laws, reinforcing the protection of small and medium-sized investors, and strengthening the risk prevention and control in 2014.   In respect of institution construction, the ways and methods for market players to take part in rule-making were broadened based on the spirits of scientific and democratic legislation; the Stock Listing Rule was revised to put the new wave of delisting system reform into practice; a concise, efficient and multi-level system of rules with the three major business rules as the core was basically formed.   In respect of regulatory enforcement, the disciplinary sanction mechanism of “separating investigation and hearing” was upheld to ensure the openness and transparency of enforcement procedures and the constant improvement in enforcement efficiency. In 2014, SZSE made 54 disciplinary sanction decisions, involving 29 listed companies and 185 responsible persons. It also imposed 53 trading restriction measures on 112 securities accounts involved in significant abnormal trading.   In respect of regulatory transition, the fourth clear-up work was completed by SZSE and examination and registration items were streamlined by 31% as per the deregulation request of strengthening the process and ex post supervision; the focus on information disclosure was adhered to and the Information Disclosure Express Practice was fully propelled by means of simplifying the rules and procedures for restructuring business and optimizing rules of industrial supervision and classified supervision; compliance management over members was strengthened by embedding supervision in services; and supervisory transparency was enhanced through multi-channel openness of supervisory information.   In addition, SZSE optimized the business rules and fundamental institutions that support innovation, and standardized and guided all kinds of innovation of products and businesses according to laws; improved the voting mechanism for small and medium-sized investors and perfected the diversified dispute settlement and relief mechanism, protecting the legal rights and interests of medium and small investors throughout the self-discipline supervision work; and carried out comprehensive risk screening over listed companies, strengthened the monitoring over systemic risk, and reinforced credit supervision in the bond market, safeguarding the safe and stable operation of the market.   The Report also presents an outlook of the SZSE’s self-supervision framework for the year of 2015. SZSE will painstakingly study and adhere to the spirits of the Fourth Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee and the Central Economic Working Conference, conscientiously implement the arrangements in the National Work Conference on Securities and Futures Regulation, enhance the efficiency of self-discipline regulatory transition, further improve the level of marketization, legalization and internationalization, adapt to, serve and take the lead in the “New Normal” phase, and endeavor to serving the capital market and national development strategies at a higher level and a wider scope.

SZSE Actively Explores New Paths of Financial Supporting
date: 2015-1-16
According to the unified arrangements of China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) has launched the 8-year Focused Supporting in Wushan County, Gansu Province since 2013. Combined with their own advantages and local characteristics, SZSE has been actively exploring new paths to establish a diversified and distinctive financial supporting system which could promote work in all areas by drawing upon the experience gained on key points. In August 2014, SZSE jointly developed the “Shen Yin Tong” product with China Construction Bank. Progress has been made in supporting featured industries and enterprises of medium, small and micro size in Wushan.   At the same time, SZSE has been actively constructing an omnibearing supporting system of “Enterprises-Farmers”. On January 15 2015, SZSE signed a Cooperation Agreement on Microfinance Poverty Alleviation Projects in Wushan County with China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation (CFPA) to jointly push forward the supporting work in Wushan, marking the product launch of “Shen Nong Hui”. Literally meaning that SZSE provides support for the development of Agriculture, Farmers and Rural Areas in Wushan in hands with CFPA, “Shen Nong Hui” is a tailor-made microcredit product specially designed for farmers with fund demands in Wushan County.   “Shen Nong Hui” is just the start of the new exploration and cooperation between SZSE and CFPA. SZSE will further expand exchange and cooperation with financial institutions and public service organizations so as to constantly improve the breadth and depth of the financial supporting work and realize the transition from “blood-transfusing” to “blood-making”.

The First Record-filing Product Gets Listed, Representing the Acceleration of Asset Securitization Business
date: 2015-1-16
The CITIC Securities “2014 Public Welfare Microfinance Asset-backed Special Plan of CFPA (1st Tranche)” has recently completed the prescribed filing procedures with Asset Management Association of China (AMAC), and will get listed on Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) on January 15 2015. This 3-year duration product, which is raising funds of RMB 500 million, takes the creditor’s rights of farmer microcredit issued by CFPA Microfinance Management Ltd. as underlying assets. Based on the characteristics of microcredit assets, the product adopts the circular buying structure with circular period of two years. Underlying assets are under real-time monitoring by managers through direct connection to business systems of originators.   The CFPA Special Plan is a landmark being as the first asset securitization product issued under the record-filing system. In November 2014, the ex ante administrative approval of asset securitization business was cancelled and changed into ex post record-filing as stipulated in the Administrative Provisions on Asset Securitization Business by Securities Companies and Subsidiaries of Fund Management Companies and relevant supporting rules promulgated by China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). At the same time, AMAC promulgated several self-discipline rules such as management measures for record-filing, negative list of underlying assets, etc.. The above moves officially pushed the assets securitization business into a new era of record-filing. Under the guidance of information disclosure-centered practice, negative list management and emphasis on process and ex post supervision, the issuance efficiency of assets securitization will be greatly speeded up, giving more play to the innovative potentials of market players.   The CFPA Special Plan is also an important measure to carry out agricultural assets securitization pilot program. It is highlighted in the Several Opinions on Financial Service Development for Agriculture, Farmer and Rural Area (“Three Rural Issues”), which was issued by the General Office of the State Council on April 20 2014, that rural financial products and services should be innovated, efforts on financial poverty alleviation should be strengthened, and financial services for vulnerable groups like migrant workers, rural women, ethnic minorities, etc. should be tangibly improved. CFPA is committed to issuing micro loans to low-income families in the countryside, and providing services for low-end groups in poverty-stricken areas who hardly benefit from traditional financial institutions. It puts inclusive finance system into practice in marketizing and sustainable forms, and effectively controls credit risks with perfect risk management systems. Through the asset securitization arrangements this time, CFPA can effectively revitalize the stock of credit assets, reduce financing costs, and continue to serve the weak links of Three Rural Issues with extensive social capital.   Under the new business rules, the issuance of asset securitization products will no longer need administrative approvals. It greatly shortens business processes and provides more efficient channels of direct financing for financing bodies with high-quality assets like CFPA. At present, SZSE has completed the following cohesive and preparing work concerning rules and business processes according to relevant requirements of the record-filing system: firstly, SZSE amended and promulgated the Business Guidelines for Asset Securitization on November 25 2014, detailing business requirements related to products listing; secondly, SZSE specified the business processes of confirmation on products listing conditions, and made public to market players in the form of Q&A. The CFPA Special Plan is the first asset securitization product getting listed under the record-filing system, marking the smooth running of new business rules. For the next step, SZSE will continue to optimize business processes, provide more convenient and efficient ways for the innovative and scale issuance of asset securitization products, and provide financial supports for economic weak links by means of market-oriented financing.

The Second Risk Management Committee of SZSE Board of Directors Founded
date:2014-12-30
On December 29 2014, the annual meeting and re-election of Risk Management Committee under the Board of Directors of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) was held. At the meeting, the 2014-2015 SZSE Work Report on Risk Management was approved, understanding and thinking about risks under new situations was interchanged, prominent market risks and corresponding prevention measures were discussed, and opinions and suggestions on strengthening risk management were put forward.   The Risk Management Committee plays the leading and decision-making role in the working system of SZSE risk management. Composed of leaders of securities companies and fund companies as well as representatives of regulatory bodies and industrial agencies, the new committee has reached a higher level in respects of representativeness, coverage and authoritativeness.   This adjustment to and enrichment of the Risk Management Committee represents a significant move for SZSE to strengthen the risk management and implement the spirit of the 4th Plenary Session of the 18th Central Committee of CPC and the “New National Nine Positive Stimuli”. It builds up a working mechanism on a regular basis for market players to jointly participate in market risk management, which is conducive to further enhancing the governance structure of SZSE, preventing systemic risks, and curb big vicious events.   Along with the founding of the second Risk Management Committee, together with the recently established Self-discipline Supervision Committee, Strategic Planning Committee and Innovation Development Committee as well as the existing SME Cultivation and Development Committee and Appeal and Review Committee, SZSE has built up an interchange and communication platform of multiple dimensions, which lays a solid foundation for the further promotion of the healthy and stable development of capital market.

Stock Market Holiday Schedule (2015)
date:2014-12-25
  1. New Year:  The market will close on 1 January (Thursday) and resume trading on 5 January (Monday).   2. Spring Festival: The market will close from 18 February (Wednesday) to 24 February (Tuesday), and resume trading on 25 February (Wednesday).   3. Qingming Festival:  The market will close from 5 April (Sunday) to 6 April (Monday), and resume trading on 7 April (Tuesday).   4. Labour Day: The market will close on 1 May (Friday) and resume trading on 4 May (Monday).   5. Dragon Boat Festival:  The market will close from 20 June (Saturday) to 22 June (Monday), and resume trading on 23 June (Tuesday).   6. Mid-Autumn Festival: The market will close on 27 September (Sunday), and resume trading on 28 September (Monday).   7. National Day:  The market will close from 1 October (Thursday) to 7 October (Wednesday), and resume trading on 8 October (Thursday).   * The market will close on weekends. * For clearing and settlement arrangement, please refer to the notice of the China Securities Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd.

SZSE Strengthens Commitment Openness, Making Efforts to Build up a Market Environment of Good Faith
date:2014-12-24
In a bid to put the “New National Nine Positive Stimuli” into practice, China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) successively published the Opinion on Further Promoting IPO Reform and the No.4 Regulatory Guidelines for Listed Companies – Commitment and Performance by De Facto Controllers, Shareholders, Related Parties, Acquirers and Listed Companies this year, which require corresponding mechanism to be set up to strengthen the fiduciary duties of issuers, their controlling shareholders and other subjects of liabilities, and to supervise the commitment performance behaviors by parties involved. Under the leadership of the CSRC, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) has always regarded commitments management as an important task. Recently, SZSE has completed the development of a Commitments Management System, disclosing to the market commitments made by Shenzhen-listed companies and their performance degree.   Submitted and updated via direct disclosure by listed companies on the official website of SZSE, the commitments in the public are excerpted from the prospectus or announcements concerning material assets restructuring, refinancing, etc., and involve subjects of liabilities including listed companies, de facto controllers, shareholders, related parties, etc.. The commitments are multi-dimensionally displayed on SZSE website under the column of Information Disclosure – Supervisory Information Openness – Commitments and Performance. Quick queries can be done by setting criteria based on stock codes, committing parties, commitment categories and performance degrees.   So far, all the Shenzhen-listed companies have completed commitment data submission, which was collectively disclosed on SZSE website on December 22. 12899 pieces of commitment matters were disclosed by Shenzhen-listed companies, involving committing parties numbered 17877. The commitments and their degrees of performance will be constantly updated by listed companies in the future.   As introduced by an officer of SZSE, the continuing disclosure of commitments and performance situation is conducive to strengthening committing parties’ sense of responsibility, giving full play to the supervisory function of the market, increasing the cost of discredit and tightening restriction on default parties. SZSE welcomes feedbacks and opinions from investors and the press via Easy IR, Investors Hotline, news reports and other channels. In case of incomplete disclosure or late update of commitment matters, SZSE will urge listed companies to make supplementary disclosure or update, forming an effective supervision mechanism. In case of commitment violation, SZSE will request subjects of liabilities to clarify and explain and strictly regulate dishonest acts. For serious situations, disciplinary actions will be taken.   The openness of commitment matters further switches regulatory focus of information disclosure from ex ante supervision to the process and ex post supervision, representing a significant measure of supervision transition by SZSE. The reinforcement of supervision over commitment performance is conducive to the establishment of a market environment of honesty and credibility, so as to better protect the legitimate rights and interests of small and medium-sized investors.

Self-discipline Supervision Committee of SZSE Board of Directors Founded
date:2014-12-23
On December 19, the founding meeting of Self-discipline Supervision Committee under the Board of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) was held. At the meeting, the founding background was briefed, the working rules were approved, the working situation and thoughts of work on future self-discipline supervision were introduced and opinions and advice were solicited. Regulatory departments and industry associations were also invited to introduce the supervisory situations over securities agents, fund companies and listed companies.   The Committee is composed of principals from industry associations, securities companies, fund companies and listed companies. It is responsible for the optimization of the Exchange’s self-discipline duties, the construction of the rule system, the study and argument on major, difficult and complicated issues, and thus providing advice and suggestions to the board of directors.   The 4th Plenary Session of the 18th Central Committee of CPC and the “New National Nine Positive Stimuli” have put forward that industrial self-discipline should be promoted in accordance with laws, the dominant role of exchange-traded markets should be emphasized, and the self-discipline duties of exchanges should be given full play. The founding of the Self-discipline Supervision Committee is an important move by SZSE to promote regulatory transition based on the spirit of the 4th Plenary Session of the 18th Central Committee of CPC and unified deploy of the “New National Nine Positive Stimuli”. It builds up a working mechanism on a regular basis for market players to jointly participate in self-discipline supervision, which is conducive to further strengthening the governance structure of exchanges, ensuring the scientificity, legality and transparency of major decision-makings in self-discipline supervision, and improving supervisory abilities according to laws.   Along with the founding of the Self-discipline Supervision Committee, there will be 6 special committees under the Board of SZSE together with the previous founded committees of SME Cultivation and Development, Appeal and Review, Risk Management, Strategic Planning, and Innovation Development. An interchange and communication platform of multiple dimensions has been built up, which enhances the transparency, inclusivity and coverage of SZSE’s governance structure, and lays a solid foundation for the further promotion of the reform featured with marketization, rule of law, and internationalization.

SZSE Published the Announcement Category Manual of Information Disclosure Express Practice
date:2014-12-17
Shenzhen Stock Exchange recently published to listed companies the Announcement Category Manual of Information Disclosure Express Practice (the “Manual”), which gives a comprehensive and systematic introduction to announcement categories of SZSE’s information disclosure practice.   Based on years of regulatory practice of information disclosure, considering risk involved in information disclosure, use frequency of announcement categories, user operating habits and other factors, SZSE has built up a set of announcement category system, which is simple, scientific and systematic. It is conducive to guide listed companies to choose the correct announcement category: firstly, the correct choice helps listed companies to check whether the submitted materials are complete and the announcement contents meet with the requirements, so as to ensure the quality of information disclosure; secondly, the correct choice helps the exchange and the clearing company to carry out corresponding background data operation, especially for announcements involving trading suspension and resumption, share listing, restricted share unlocking, etc., so as to reduce systemic risk and operational risk; last but not least, the correct choice ensures the smooth running of the Information Disclosure Express Practice in that misapplication wouldn’t occur to announcements involving complicated business and high risks, and applicable announcements wouldn’t miss the Express Practice.   SZSE started the pilot running for the Information Disclosure Express Practice in September 2011, making a great change in the way of information disclosure. In January this year, the Express Practice was launched in full sail. SZSE accelerates supervision transition by switching regulatory focus of information disclosure from ex ante supervision to the process and ex post supervision. Listed companies’ sense of duty is found to be greatly increased, and the quality and efficiency of information disclosure as well. However, officers of SZSE still found that in some cases announcement categories were left out or wrongly chosen by listed companies, which resulted in inaccurate or incomplete disclosure.   In order to guide listed companies to make correct choices of announcement categories, improve quality and prevention risk of information disclosure, SZSE formulated and published the Announcement Category Manual of Information Disclosure Express Practice, where the entire system of announcement categories and their applicable cases are introduced, frequently asked questions in the Express Practice are answered, typical errors occurred are collated with solutions, and specific applicable situations for each kind of announcements are explained in business practices.   It is learn that the announcement categories will be constantly optimized by SZSE in line with the business development of listed companies and the requirements of regulatory practice, so as to ensure the safe operation and smooth running of the Express Practice.

Sample Adjustment of SZSE Component Index, SZSE SME Index and SZSE ChiNext Index
date:2014-12-16
Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. announced on December 15, 2014 to make regular adjustment, in line with the indices compiling rules, to the sample stocks for SZSE series indices, which include SZSE Component Index, SZSE SME Index, SZSE ChiNext Index and SZSE 100 Index. Meanwhile, Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. announced to make regular adjustment to the sample stocks for CNI 100 Index and other cross-market indices. The adjustments will come into effect as of the first trading day of January in 2015.   One stock will be adjusted to the sample stocks of SZSE Component Index, with O-film to be swapped in as sample stock, whereas XSCE to be swapped out of sample stock; 6 stocks will be adjusted to the sample stocks of SZSE SME Index, with CAOE, Santai Electronics, etc. to be swapped in, whereas DHKJ, Joyoung, etc. to be swapped out; 5 stocks will be adjusted to the sample stocks of SZSE ChiNext Index, with Dinghan Tech, Tatfook Technology, etc. to be swapped in, whereas Jinlong, Sunwin, etc. to be swapped out; 4 stocks will be adjusted to the sample stocks of SZSE 100 Index, with HD Medicine, Da An Gene, etc. to be swapped in, whereas Jidong Cement, GED, etc. to be swapped out. 6 stocks will be adjusted to the sample of CNI 100 Index, with CJZQ, Dahua Technology, etc. to be swapped in, whereas Luzhou Lao Jiao, Zhong Ke San Huan, etc. to be swapped out.   From the perspective of sector distribution, the proportion of emerging industries such as information technology, medicine and health, and consumer discretionary ascends, whereas the proportion of traditional industries such as energy and raw material industries descends after the adjustment. For instance, the sample stock to be swapped in SZSE Component Index is in the industry of information technology; 5 out of the 6 sample stocks to be swapped in SZSE SME Index is in the industries of information technology and medicine and health; the 4 sample stocks to be swapped in SZSE 100 Index is in the industries of information technology and medicine and health.   From the perspective of company growth, the performance of sample stocks of the core indices of Shenzhen Market proves to be more outstanding after the adjustment, especially SZSE ChiNext Index. According to statistics for the previous three quarters of 2014, the operating revenue of sample stocks of SZSE 100 Index, SZSE SME Index and SZSE ChiNext Index increased by 10%, 17% and 36% respectively, and the net profit of them increased by 14%, 13% and 20% respectively, whereas the operating revenue and net profit of A-shares increased 9% and 6% respectively.   More materials can be found on the website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and the website of CNINDEX (www.cnindex.com.cn).

Gear Up Supervisory Transition, Push Forward Process Openness
date:2014-12-16
-- To Include Administrative Permission-exempted Restructuring into SZSE Information Disclosure Express Practice, and Make Restructuring Inquiry Letters Public   Shenzhen Stock Exchange recently promulgated the Notice on Spearhead the Information Disclosure Express Practice for Administrative Permissions-exempted Corporate Information Disclosure Including Preplans of Listed Company Major Assets Restructuring (the “Notice”). In the future, Information Disclosure Express Practice will be applied to corporate information, such as preplans of listed company major assets restructuring, which is exempted from administrative permissions. SZSE will carry out ex post supervision over such information disclosure.   According to the Notice, SZSE will make public the ex post supervision inquiry letters for information disclosure involving restructuring in the “Rules & Regulations” Column on its official website, representing a big step of SZSE from supervisory result openness to supervisory process openness, which would further enhance the quality, efficiency and transparency of its supervision and services. As introduced by an officer of SZSE, in case that listed companies fail to prepare restructuring schemes as stipulated or violate the Management Measures on Major Assets Restructuring of Listed Companies, SZSE will send out inquiry letters and request them to explain; listed companies should disclose such inquiry letters in a complete and overall manner, so that market players would have a clear picture of the supervision process of relevant information disclosure.   SZSE has been accelerating supervision transition this year by switching regulatory focus of information disclosure from ex ante supervision to the process and ex post supervision. The Information Disclosure Express Practice of SZSE, after two-year pilot running, launched in full sail at the beginning of the year. 98.76% companies listed on the Shenzhen market are included in the Practice, and eligible announcements are enlarged to all categories even including those might have operational risks. In addition, SZSE has been constantly improving the regulatory transparency by making public the processing schedule for seven types of business such as listing of non-public offering shares, and by releasing supervision updates on the official Weibo and WeChat.   Adhering to the concept of “Deregulation, and Strengthening Supervision”, SZSE will, from the perspective of information needs of investors, push market players back to their bounden duties, guide information disclosure responsible persons to bring subjective initiatives into full play, improve corporate governance and standardized information disclosure, so as to better protect the rights and interests of small and medium-sized investors. SZSE will also intensify efforts to improve the transparency of supervision and services in accordance with laws.

Meaning of QFII Practice for Internationalization of Chinese Capital Market
date:2014-12-10
Speech by Song Liping, President and CEO of SZSE, at the 2015 Caijing Magazine Annual Meeting   The launch of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect marks a new milestone in the opening-up of Chinese capital market. Overseas investors have reaffirmed their stable expectation for internationalization of the Chinese capital market, heightening their enthusiasm for participation. More and more large financial institutions are making and implementing long-term plans in the Chinese capital market.   The active and broad participation of overseas investors is a key micro foundation of the market to realize the internationalization strategy. Overseas investors’ reasonable demands for institutional arrangements such as market transparency, as well as their trading cost endurance, serve as a driving force and test stone for furthering capital market reforms. A key task confronting us during the process of internationalization is to learn and understand the characteristics and requirements of overseas investors. The QFII scheme has been around for 12 years since it was introduced in November 2002. By the end of November 24, a total 272 QFIIs have been approved of USD 64.061 billion worth of investment quota. In terms of time span and coverage, QFIIs serve as a window for us to know and understand overseas investors. The experience of QFII practice over the past 12 years provides us great insights and shed light on the following respects:   First, the investment philosophy of QFII. When the QFII scheme was introduced 12 years ago, regulators hoped that QFIIs would be long-term value investors and play a unique role in market stabilization and price discovery. QFIIs come from different institutions including university endowment funds, sovereign wealth funds, investment banks and insurers, demonstrating varied investment styles. In spite of their diversity QFIIs have practiced the value investment philosophy as regulators had hoped in terms of asset allocation preferences and turnover rates. Their investment philosophy was also well known to the market. For example, in 2013, QFIIs’ average holding period was 115 days; the average ROE of the stocks they held was 18% and the dividend yield ratio of such stocks was 1.57%. All these features point to a clear value investment philosophy. In the primary market, QFIIs practice sound risk control in the subscription for IPO shares in contrast to other investors. Our statistics of QFII’s subscription to IPO shares during 2009-2012 revealed that QFII’s bids for IPO shares dropped in terms of both absolute and relative volumes in the irrational bidding inflation. QFII’s stepping away from the market in another way indicated that they adhered to their investment philosophy. In making investment decisions, QFIIs emphasized the importance of corporate social responsibility and integrity of listed companies. They also paid more attention to and were more actively involved in the governance of listed companies. Such philosophy and practice have greatly helped change the investment philosophy of domestic investors. For example, in 2012, thanks to the opposition of a university endowment QFII, a local state-owned assets administrative office changed its appointment of a director to a listed company. After that case, a few domestic institutional investors said: “We indeed do not pay as much attention to corporate governance of listed companies as QFIIs and we must learn from them.” As a matter of fact, it is the investment philosophy pursued by QFIIs that is more likely to put into practice and operation the much-awaited “market-driven restraint mechanism”, thus facilitating progress of the market.   Second, QFIIs’ understanding of real economy and industries. QFIIs have a long history and rich experience of investment in overseas markets. They witnessed industrial life cycles and industry upgrading of both advanced countries and emerging markets. Therefore, they are in a good position to analyze and understand these industries from a broader and long-term perspectives. For example, quite a few industries that are undergoing rapid development in China, including some emerging industries, have become mature in overseas markets. Because of this, QFII’s experience in understanding industries can be adopted in the Chinese market. Our survey shows that QFII has given profound attention to A-share companies. On Shenzhen’s market, their asset allocation to stocks on the SME Board and ChiNext Market have been on the rise in the past few years. Some domestic institutions are also “looking for the next rising star”. This can be seen as an outcome of QFII’s intensive screening in the A-share market. We also hope that QFII’s investment interest and their professional judgment in China’s emerging industries will play a bigger role in the improvement of the market’s risk pricing ability.     Third, QFII’s mature management philosophy and robust management system. We need to learn more from QFIIs in these two aspects, which are currently our weak links. Let’s take selection of domestic asset managers as a case in point. On one hand, QFIIs value long-term ROI and do not put much pressure on managers for short-term performance fluctuations. So they trust the managers they appointed. On the other hand, QFIIs have a very strict and scientific selecting process for managers and only few managers can win their favor. So they never hire any manager they mistrust. For example, in selecting managers, QFII often has three stages. The first round is a mass selection which may involve dozens or even hundreds of managers. The second round is due diligence investigation of investment departments, mainly involving understanding the investment philosophies, stock screening ideas, decision-making processes, risk control and turnover rates and other particulars of managers. The third round is due diligence investigation of back offices, often including only two to three finalists. At this stage, QFII will visit the managers’ offices to communicate with the heads of the latter’s risk control, legal and compliance, order execution and clearing and settlement departments on the issues of day-to-day maintenance. After the global financial crisis, more and more attention has been paid to risk control and legal and compliance of middle and back offices as they often manage large-scale, long-term public or state funds for which security is the foremost issue. After the three rounds of interaction, a list of up to 150 questions will be formed. Such rigorous process and professional and detailed question list not only ensure the selection of a qualified manager, but also unknowingly helped the formation of a domestic professional investment team.   Internationalization of the capital market is a two-way process. We need to know and understand better about overseas investors, while overseas investors also need to know and understand China’s markets, listed companies and institutions. Since 2013, the SZSE has been making active and systemic attempts in these two respects.    On one hand, we established the “Home for Members,” one of whose purposes is to provide training for members on internationalization and other issues.   On the other hand, we launched a series of activities called “Investor Open House Program” for overseas investors. In the past year, we have organized seven such activities and nearly 200 representatives from institutions in the US, Europe, Southeast Asia and Hong Kong have joined face-to-face communication listed companies. During the latest activity conducted in October, more than 20 representatives of overseas investors including Khazanah Nasional Bhd (Malaysia Government’s Strategic Investment Fund) visited eight ChiNext-listed companies including Tempus Global, Tianyuan Dic, Centre Testing. As their communications have been made publicly available on SZSE’s Easy IR platform, retail investors are able to learn from overseas professional institutions such as how they analyze a listed company, hence improving their own investment knowledge.   The newly held fourth plenary session of the 18th CPC Central Committee has adopted a decision policy to comprehensively promote the rule of law in China. We believe that, relying on the powerful real economy of China which now ranks the second in the world, with the continued improvement of legal environment of the society and markets, China will expedite the two-way opening-up of its capital market in both size and quality. The SZSE will also spare no efforts to improve its level of internationalization.  

Symposium on Technical Services for Mutual Recognition to Cross-border Funds Held in Shenzhen
date:2014-12-10
The Symposium on Technical Services for Mutual Recognition to Cross-border Funds co-sponsored by Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), China Securities Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd. (CSDC) and Shenzhen Securities Communication Co., Ltd. (SSCC) was held in Shenzhen on December 7. The symposium was attended by over 60 distinguished guests including Zhang Yujun - Assistant Minister of China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), Alexa Lam - Deputy CEO of Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission and representatives from Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA), Qianhai Administration Office (QAO), fund companies and banking sectors in Hong Kong and mainland China. In-depth discussion and exchange were carried out on topics including market demands, organization pattern and implementation schemes involved in technical services for the mutual recognition to cross-border funds.   Pushing forward the two-way opening of China’s capital market has been made clear in the Decision of the CCCPC on Some Major Issues Concerning Comprehensively Deepening the Reform. The traditional open-up channels like QFII, RQFII and QDII have seen constant growth in size for the recent years. The official launch of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect marks another important channel in the two-way opening, which is the connectivity of exchanges. On September 9, 2014, CSRC gave out its official reply to Shenzhen municipal government’s previous request for favorable policies for deepening capital market innovation and development in the Qianhai Area, suggesting CSDC and SZSE to coordinate and cooperate to research and work out the detailed scheme for the construction of a unified service platform for the Mutual Recognition in Qianhai Area, so as to provide cross-border sales, custody and settlement for funds domiciled in Hong Kong and mainland.   The Mutual Recognition can not only fully incorporate the characteristics of both sides, but also give full play to dual advantages, which helps to push our supervision and cooperation to a higher level, said Alexa Lam, Deputy CEO of Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission. On such basis, a platform satisfying different customers and market demands in the area will gradually be formed, thus enhancing the competitiveness, attractiveness and voice of capital markets on both sides.   Compared to the existing channels, the Mutual Recognition is of great significance, said Song Liping, President & CEO of SZSE. First, the Mutual Recognition represents not only the opening of the capital market, but also the opening of services and trades. Taking such opportunity, domestic investors for the first time can enjoy services provide by famous overseas assets management companies and vice versa. Second, the scope for investors’ portfolio will be enlarged through the Mutual Recognition. For example, domestic investors can not only invest in stocks and bonds domiciled in Hong Kong, but also overseas products in the U.S., Europe, etc. Third, the investment in the counterpart markets through the Mutual Recognition is conducive to optimizing the investor structure and improving the pricing efficiency of respective market.   According to the requirements of CSRC, CSDC will give full play to its function of financial infrastructure, actively cooperate with SZSE, HKMA, QAO and other relevant parties, and make a good effort in promoting the Mutual Recognition and the amalgamation of China’s and global capital markets, said Dai Wenhua, General Manager of CSDC.   At the symposium, the overall preparations and specific scheme for the service platform for the Mutual Recognition, and information about the Financial Data Exchange Platform (FDEP) of SSCC and the Central Moneymarkets Unit (CMU) of HKMA were also introduced. It is agreed that the unified service platform is good for reducing operational costs, bridging differences between regulations and practices on both sides and increasing operational efficiency for cross-border fund sales. Attendees highly appreciated the primary business scheme put forward by CSDC and SZSE, and gave many constructive advices based on their own demands on the service platform. Both CSDC and SZSE said they would further optimize the scheme based on the advices.

SZSE Launched a Series of Activities on December 4th, National Law Publicity Day
date:2014-12-8
Upon the advent of 14th ‘December 4th’ National Law Publicity Day, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) launched a series of activities themed with “boosting law-based governance, and building a transparent and scientific system of business rules”.   The 4th Plenary Session of the 18th Central Committee of CPC has put the rule of law high on the agenda, said by an officer of SZSE. The rule of law is the cornerstone of the capital market. As an organizer and self-discipline regulator of the capital market, SZSE should play a positive role in the legalization process of the capital market. Themed with “boosting law-based governance, and building a transparent and scientific system of business rules”, SZSE launched the following activities:   - First, an Interpretation of Revised Listing Rules was published on SZSE’s official website, WeChat, Business Zone for Listed Companies and Zone for Member Brokers, so as to enhance the transparency of business rules and deepen market players’ understanding of business rules.   - Second, questionnaires on the rule system building were sent out to listed companies, member brokers and investors to extensively solicit market opinions, so as to further propel scientific, transparent and democratic rule-making. It is known that 418 feedback emails have been received by SZSE for the first three days since the activity launched. The opinions involved transparency of rule-making, matching explanations on rule-revising, channels for rule-publishing, simplification of rules and refinement of business processes.   - Third, in order to strengthen internal team building, SZSE arranged its staff to sit in on the hearing of securities misrepresentation cases at the Shenzhen Intermediate People’s Court, and carried out an essay contest in the entire exchange, which was themed with “publicizing and implementing the spirit of the 4th Plenary Session of the 18th Central Committee of CPC, and pushing forward the legislation of the capital market”.   To better implement the spirit of the 4th Plenary Session of the 18th Central Committee of CPC and the unified deployment of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, efforts to be made by SZSE in promoting the rule of law, governing by law and administration by law will focus on the following aspects:   - First, continuous improvement in self-discipline regulatory system. Keeping abreast of the amendment to the Securities Law and business development needs, SZSE will do a better job in the integration, abolishment, amendment and formulation of business rules, so as to enhance the perspectiveness, timeliness and effectiveness of rules, and build up a simple, efficient and open system of multi-level business rules.   - Second, being a frontline supervisor with the thinking and means of rule of law, and pushing forward the openness of rules and standards. Based on the previous four cleaning-up of review and registration matters, SZSE will make better achievements on the dynamic cleaning of review and registration matters in line with the requirements of law-abiding rights and liabilities, and streamline administration and institute decentralization, so as to facilitate the transformation of regulation, and improve regulatory efficiency and transparency. Besides, SZSE will stick to and further perfect the disciplinary enforcement mechanism based on the separation of investigation and judgment, so as to strengthen crackdown on illegal behaviors and protect investors’ legitimate rights and interests in accordance with laws.   - Third, optimization of the law-ruling environment in the capital market. SZSE will continue to participate in major legislation work such as the amendment to the Securities Law and formulation of the Futures Law, so as to consolidate the system base for the law-based governance over markets and the exchange.

Finding the Fulcrum of the Multi-tiered Capital Market in the Intrinsic Need of Real Economy
date:2014-11-28
Speech by Madame Song Liping, President & CEO of SZSE, at the Sixth Sina Golden Kylin Forum   In line with the fundamental requirement for the financial sector to serve the real economy, we must focus financial innovation and services on serving the endogenous need of the real economy. Recently, the State Council released ten new initiatives to further boost financial support for the real economy. “Sluggish finance will lead to stagnant real economy,” Premier Li Keqiang said when describing the relationship between finance and the real economy.   A decade ago, the SZSE launched the SME Board and started a nationwide project to help with corporate restructuring and incubation for SMEs. With the evolution and enhancement of the multi-tiered capital market, especially after the launch of the ChiNext market, our incubation work has gradually extended downward to integrate with local economy. It has also been incorporated in the development of local scientific, technological and financial system, SME financial support system and regional financial eco-system. During the course of our exploration, I could sense a stronger role of the multi-tiered capital market in directly supporting and driving entrepreneurship, innovation, SMEs and local economy. Meanwhile, enhanced cooperation with local governments strengthened the financial support system for boosting entrepreneurship and innovation, improved the local financial ecosystem and further magnified the leverage effect of the multi-tiered capital market, which in turn, consolidated the basis for the rapid and sound development of the multi-tiered capital market.   As the world’s second largest economy in an economic transition, China still lags far behind in terms of capital market service. We must speed up market reforms and innovations. Among others in the ten new initiatives of the State Council, “quickly unveil the reform plan of IPO registration system, scrap the requirement of continued profitability, establish a rapid small-sum refinancing mechanism for the capital market and launch the pilot equity crowdfunding program” are among the most urgent. In addition, we will take full advantage of reform and development of the multi-tiered capital market and solve financing problems of SMEs and innovative enterprises by expanding market platform, extending product lines and improving our service system. I’d like to take this opportunity to introduce to you our most recent efforts.   First pushing forward reform of the ChiNext market and enriching market tiers.  We will enhance the inclusiveness and flexibility of ChiNext by launching a special segment in the ChiNext, taking into full account the operating status and development trend of Internet businesses and innovative technological enterprises as well as the reform initiative of lowering listing threshold and the progress of a registration-based IPO system.   Second, launching the “Growth Roadmap 2.0 of technological SMEs”, jointly developing a hi-tech and finance network, enhancing the capability to serve technological SMEs and creating a ChiNext-led, innovation-centered financial service chain. As early as 2004, SZSE and the Ministry of Science and Technology jointly rolled out the “Roadmap Plan of Technological SMEs” with the purpose to incubate technological SMEs in hi-tech parks. Thanks to generous support and active participation by various parties, the program has been operating for 10 years and constantly enriched, effectively supporting development of the SME Board and ChiNext market.     In recent years, technological financial service has made great strides. A financial service system has taken shape, comprising funds, angel investments, PEs/VCs, OTC markets, technological banks and covering different growth stages of technological innovation. Based on this, the upgraded “Roadmap 2.0” sponsored jointly by the Ministry of Science and Technology, the SZSE and China Merchants Bank started operation on October 30. Its first road show and training activity was held in Xi’an. By leveraging on the Internet technology and via a unified platform, the “Roadmap 2.0” realizes information sharing, process linkages and functional complementation among government agencies, hi-tech parks, capital markets, financial institutions and third-party service intermediaries so as to provide an all-rounded, comprehensive financing and service platform for technological SMEs.   Third, supporting the establishment of regional equity markets and developing the financial service system for local SMEs. OTC markets are the cradle for issuer resources. Development of OTC markets will cement the basis of exchange markets and extend the service scope of the multi-tiered capital market downward significantly. The new Nine-point Opinions released by the State Council has made it explicitly clear that regional equity markets are part of the multi-tiered capital market system.   In the past, the SZSE and various local governments rolled out a suite of supporting policies and working mechanisms for the incubation of listing candidates, which have played an active role in accelerating the cultivation and listing of key SMEs. Although such policies and mechanisms only covered a few listing candidates, some local governments realized the huge potential of integrating local financial resources and supporting SMEs. Over the past two years, local governments have actively explored ways to build regional equity markets. Leveraging on such market-oriented platforms, local governments quickly gathered local SMEs, service providers, financial institutions, policies and information. This has become an important way for local governments to promote SME service systems. Based on the early cooperation and incubation foundation, the SZSE has supported the establishment of equity exchanges in a few key cities to create a routinized and comprehensive SME financial support platform. Our efforts have yielded preliminary results. For instance, in Shenzhen, more than 4000 enterprises have been quoted on Qianhai Equity Exchange, raising over RMB 1.6 billion through private placement of bond products. In Wuhan, banks have provided equity-pledge loans totaling RMB 8.16 billion for quoted companies. In Qingdao, local government invests public funds in the equity market to support SMEs.   Fourth, actively developing SME private placement bonds, asset-backed securities and other fixed-income products to expand the scope of service to the real economy. Apart from equity markets, the SZSE has actively developed diversified financing tools to serve SMEs and the real economy. Among others, SME private placement bonds mainly target micro- and small-sized enterprise. By the end of October, of the 344 SMEs that have filed for record, 224 enterprises have completed issuance of 277 private placement bonds, raising RMB 29.96 billion. Moreover, SZSE attaches great importance to asset-backed securities (ABS) and has a dedicated ABS team. Since 2005, a total of 37 specific plans have been offered, raising RMB 66.6 billion. Out of the 37 specific plans, 24 have been listed on SZSE’s Block Trade Platform, raising RMB 31.25billion. Among others, Alibaba’s small loan special asset management plan has opened a new door for small loan funding. The newly offered Xuzhou Shantytown Redevelopment ABS product found a new way to tap idle assets of indemnificatory housing and attract social funds for participation in the development project.   Fifth, reinforcing the exchange’s public platform function and cultivating a culture of entrepreneurship and innovation. Along with the acceleration of economic transformation and upgrading and the deepening of innovation-driven national strategy, fresh waves of social entrepreneurship and innovation are emerging and surging. In order to become a broad platform for social entrepreneurship and innovation, the multi-tiered capital market must further intensify its functions and foster an environment that inspires entrepreneurship and advocates innovation. Exchanges should also take the initiative to assert their roles as public platforms to create the social ethos of entrepreneurship and innovation.   For instance, since last year, we have started to set up a program named “Home for Universities” in partnership with a few domestic universities. We invited university students to the SZSE as well as outstanding entrepreneurs to universities, so that students will have better understanding and first-hand experience of the cutting-edge issues of entrepreneurship and innovation from the perspective of listed companies. This program was well-received by university teachers and students. Universities are breeding grounds for innovative ideas and talents. We hope that the seed and dream that we plant today in the hearts of young people will burgeon and blossom in the future and amass more new force for entrepreneurship and innovation. In addition, to allow for more entrepreneurs to share their successful experiences, we have also held a series of lectures this year, delivered mainly by chairmen and CEOs of listed companies, open to start-up entrepreneurs, intermediaries and investors in the respective industries. In summary, the exchange serves as a public platform for interaction between universities, service providers, entrepreneurs and investors, and an advocate for entrepreneurship and innovation.   It is a systemic project for the capital markets to serve the real economy, while we are continuously enhancing our understanding of the mission and role of the capital market. The deepening of all-round reforms and strategic economic transformation is bringing about historical development opportunities for the capital market. Dedicating to turning the SZSE into a tailor-made multi-tiered capital market and establishing a robust supporting system with products and service, we will serve the real economy to a higher level and in a broader scope.  

SZSE Amends Business Guidelines for Asset Securitization
date:2014-11-27
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) promulgated the Business Guidelines for Asset Securitization (2014 revision) today in a bid to make corresponding adjustment to legal application and supervision rules after China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) cancelled the administrative examination and approval on asset securitization business.   The following amendments and supplements are made to the Business Guidelines: - first, detailing the conditions for transfer by listing, and clearly requesting the managers to apply for such eligibility to SZSE before issuing any asset securitization; - second, specifying the conditions for products listing, especially for key processes such as underlying asset transfer, associated security interest transfer and cash flow forecast; - third, strengthening investor suitability management and clearly defining the scope of qualified investors; - fourth, emphasizing the supervision over information disclosure by mean of detailing disclosure requirements for listing initial information, follow-up ratings, etc.; and - fifth, integrating other SZSE rules on asset securitization into the Business Guidelines for the purpose of investors’ easy understanding of the transfer mechanism for asset-backed securities.   SZSE has made great success in the initial stage of serving real economy via asset securitization business, as expressed by an officer of SZSE. Asset securitization products were issued to support shantytowns transformation in Xuzhou and Xiamen, the Alibaba Micro Credit Securitization Product was listed to serve small and micro enterprises, and the first exchange-traded Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT) was launched. 16 special plans with issuing value of RMB 20.483 billion have been issued and listed this year. After the amendment, SZSE will continue to facilitate financing of small and micro enterprises, explore agricultural assets securitization, and accelerate product innovation for Credit Assets Securitization and REITs based on the new regulatory requirements and effective control of overall risk.

Accelerate Development of Multi-tiered Capital Market for the Real Economy
date:2014-11-24
- Speech by President Song Liping at the 10th Capital Market Conference for Local Governments on November 13, 2014   Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, The Shenzhen Stock Exchange held the first experience-sharing conference on corporate shareholding structure reform in Hangzhou in 2004, aimed at providing a platform of communication for capital markets to better serve local economic development. Ten years later, we are gathered here again by the West Lake.  The situation has changed significantly. The multi-tiered capital market system has basically taken shape and will continue to undergo profound changes. Regional financial support system offered by local governments has made great progress, providing us with a new foundation, vision and theme for our discussion.   First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to brief you on the latest development in the multi-tiered capital market of the Shenzhen Stock Exchange.   The SME Board and ChiNext Market are being strengthened according to the State Council’s Nine-point guideline which requires enhanced growth in the SME board and accelerated reform in the ChiNext market. This year marks the 10th anniversary of the SME Board and the 5th Anniversary of the ChiNext Market. Thanks to strong support by local governments, the two market sections have made remarkable progress. By November 10, 2014, the SME Board had 726 listed companies and the ChiNext market had 400 listed companies. The SME Board has a wide industrial coverage, concentrating a group of leading enterprises in their niche sectors. The ChiNext market hosts a cluster of innovative companies. 94% of ChiNext-listed companies are certified high-tech enterprises and 73% are from strategic emerging industries. They are an effective force in bolstering economic restructuring and upgrading in their regions. During the activities marking the fifth anniversary of the ChiNext Market, parties from all walks of society fully recognized ChiNext Market’s achievement in fostering emerging industries and promoting independent innovation. Moving forward, we will push forward the ChiNext Market’s reforms in market access, refinancing, equity incentives and other institutional designs to be more responsive to innovation, growth characteristics and needs of enterprises; And in the context of reforms in the registration-based IPO system, we will evaluate means to speed up the reform in the ChiNext Market and enhance its role as a powerhouse to allocate the capital supply chain around innovation chain. In the process, more and more social capital will be channeled to technological companies and SMEs, forming a deep social base and intrinsic capacity of the market to support innovation-driven development. We are actively promoting institutional innovation for mergers and acquisitions. In recent years, the SME Board and the ChiNext Market have witnessed highly active M&A activities. From its inception till the end of October 2014, the SME Board had seen initiation of 185 restructuring plans, involving 270.9 billion yuan (USD 44 billion). 95 SME Board-listed companies have completed corporate restructuring involving a total transaction value of 95.5 billion yuan (USD 15.5 billion). From its opening till the end of October 2014, the ChiNext Market had recorded 222 trading suspensions due to pending restructuring plans, demonstrating an explosive growth trend in M&A. 110 restructuring-related suspensions were recorded in the first 10 months of 2014. Among them, 136 major asset restructuring plans have been released involving total M&A value of 78.103 billion yuan (USD 12.7 billion). To encourage listed companies to grow in size and strength through mergers and acquisitions, we actively promote reforms in related systems on one hand. The SME Board- and ChiNext-listed companies mostly conduct mergers and acquisitions for consolidation in their industries or integration of upstream and downstream supply chains. As a result, they have a high requirement time efficiency of auditing services and flexibility in pricing and payment. To this end, we actively promote simplification of M&A review process and support market-oriented pricing and diversification of M&A tools. For example, we recently launched M&A private placement bond instrument. On the other hand, we have taken a series of measures in closer response to business needs and special features of M&As of listed companies at the SZSE. For example, we organize regular M&A training programs and conferences to offer a platform bringing together listed and unlisted companies in the same industry. We organized Exhibition Against Insider Trading to prevent insider trading cases often seen in mergers and acquisitions involving listed companies. We have made joint research with Associations of Listed Companies to bring forward deep-seated problems and hurdles in institutional mechanisms of M&As involving listed companies. We are developing the SME private placement bond, asset-backed securities and other fixed income products to alleviate SMEs’ financing difficulties of and provide new financial solutions for the nation’s urbanization and infrastructure projects. Besides strong development in the equity market, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange has diversified financing instruments, providing financing services for SMEs and emerging industries. Among them, the SME private placement bonds are designed to serve small and micro enterprises. By   the end of October, 344 SMEs have filed for private placement bond issuance with the SZSE. And 224 SMEs have completed 277 private debt issuances, raising 29.96 billion yuan (USD 4.8 Billion). Asset-backed securities (ABS) are an innovative instrument that the Shenzhen Stock Exchange attaches great importance to. Since 2005 a total of 37 special asset management plans have been issued with cumulative financing of 66.6 billion yuan (USD10.8 billion).  And 24 of the special asset management plans have been listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange’s block trade platform raising 31.25 billion yuan (USD 5 billion). The most influential projects include Alibaba 1-9, Nanjing Urban Sewage Usufruct, Xiamen Jianfa Heshan Shantytown Redevelopment and Xuzhou Affordable Housing Development. On the basis of the experience accumulated from pilot projects, we will further broaden underlying assets and explore diversified modes of operation. We will facilitate a new round urbanization and expand financing channels to serve infrastructure development in the country.   Second, since the promulgation of the new nine-point guideline by the State Council, the capital markets have demonstrated progress in reform and innovation in all fronts and breakthroughs in key areas. On the basis of serving the real economy, the multi-tiered capital market has been given greater scope and a more urgent task of serving the local economy, which is mainly manifested in the following aspects:   With accelerated development and improvement of the multi-tiered capital market system, a new market platform has taken shape to serve the local economy. Besides the SME Board, the ChiNext Market and the new OTC market, regional equity markets and private equity platforms have seen rapid development. The latter two markets feature high flexibility, demonstrating the nature of "grassroots finance".  Their strong penetration in local economic development is irreplaceable. At present, many regions have taken pilot programs and obtained some experience. On the back of these new market platforms, a cluster of micro-finance companies, institutions, products, information and resources have emerged in some regions. Services are provided to local businesses through the integration of various financing resources. In the overall context of deepening reforms, the capital market has found a new connecting point in serving local economic development. For example, the country is launching reforms in state-invested and state-owned enterprises. It is a consensus that the integration of state-owned assets and private capital will be the highlight of a new round of SOE reform and the capital markets is the main channel for the mixed ownership reform. Management shareholding scheme was introduced in the merger and acquisition of Chengfei Integration’s mixed ownership structure intermediated by CATIC Securities. Earlier this year, Tencent become second largest shareholder of NavInfo next only to the state shareholder. These are two typical case of mixed ownership reform. This afternoon we will invite CATIC securities, NavInfo and other guests to share experiences in mixed ownership reform. Local financial services put forward new demands for the capital market. In the process of readjusting the model of economic growth and economic restructuring, innovation-driven development strategy is in full implementation. All regions in in country are required to continuously optimize traditional industries and actively cultivate emerging industries. Both tasks require right financial solutions. The level of diversification and urgency for financial services in regions across the country is unprecedented. At the same time division of responsibilities between the central and local governments in financial regulation and risk management is increasingly clear, with local authorities shouldering more responsibilities for local financial management. Our recent research indicates that more is expected from financial offices and other local financial authorities and new requirements have been proposed for the capital market and exchanges. I would like to emphasize that the Chinese economy is entering a stage of new normal, where economic transformation and upgrading is more urgent than ever before. It is a multi-tiered capital market’s most fundamental starting point and foothold to serve the real economy. To this end, we should exert all efforts to build a support system to ensure the best performance of the basic functions of the multi-tiered capital market.   We are continuing to strengthen cooperation and jointly promote development of the multi-tiered capital market system. The Shenzhen Stock Exchange’s service for the local economic development started with fostering potential issuers in corporate restructuring but expanded to a much wider scope. It has long been a subject of interest for us to integrate the capital market with the financial support system for SMEs, technology-financing system as well as regional financial ecosystems. Through continuous exploration, we have deepened our understanding of the multi-tiered capital market’s mission and its path of development. We have deeply felt that a multi-tiered capital market tailor-made for China's economic transformation will be serve the real economy at a higher level and in a broader scope. At this moment, we understand that more need to learned and done to promote financial innovation and facilitate fresh growth in the real economy, as we face the widespread and acute problem of poor access and high cost of SME financing, hurdles in share capital formation in emerging and innovative companies and urgent demands for local financial services. Recently, several new projects have been carried out in this regard. We hope to work together with you to promote progress in the following areas: We have started the "SME Growth Roadmap 2.0" to improve overall service capability for medium, small and micro hi-tech enterprises. In order to implement the national strategy of independent innovation, we started to foster hi-tech SMEs for IPO within hi-tech parks 10 years ago. The Shenzhen Stock Exchange, along with the Torch Center of the Ministry of Science and Technology launched the "SME growth roadmap", also known as Roadmap 1.0.  This program has continued for a decade. On this basis and with co-sponsorship of the Torch Center, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, the new national OTC market and China Merchants Bank, an upgraded version or the "Roadmap 2.0" was officially launched on October 30, 2014. And the first docking roadshow and training activities were held in Xi'an. "Roadmap 2.0" will make full use of modern information technology to create a unified platform for government departments, high-tech parks, capital markets, financial institutions and third-party professional service intermediaries. The platform will offer full information sharing, process interoperability, complementary functions and provide comprehensive, full lifecycle financing and integrated services for high-tech SMEs. We have intensified market cultivation and initiated Home for Finance Offices Program. The Shenzhen Stock Exchange has always attached great importance to cooperation with regional finance offices and High-tech Zones across the country. We held eight consecutive seminars for local financial cadres and nine session of experience sharing for local governments on facilitating corporate restructuring and public listing. To further integrate resources and deepen service, we have launched Home for Finance Offices this year. Focused on achievement demonstration, interaction, communication, mutual learning, training and regional equity platform (fourth board) development, the program promotes mutual visits, information and resource sharing between the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and the Finance Offices and among finance offices across the country. This year we published Reader of Working Knowledge of Capital Markets for Local Government Officers. The Shenzhen Stock Exchange launched the first Heart to Heart Essay Contest for local finance offices and invited more local finance cadres to visit the exchange. Two batches of local finance cadres have completed their secondments to Shenzhen Stock Exchange. We will further improve Home for Finance Offices’ mechanisms of cooperation to strengthen development of regional capital markets, intensify publicity of local finance offices’ excellent work experience and help improve local finance cadres’ understanding of the capital market. The Shenzhen Stock Exchange is committed to deepening cooperation with local finance offices. We welcome more comments and suggestions for the Home for Finance Offices Program. We support local governments to improve financial support system for SMEs. The Third Plenum of the 18th CPC Congress proposed that the market shall play a decisive role in allocating resources. Work to comprehensively deepen reforms is being implemented. As far as we know, local governments are constantly introducing innovative systems of financial support for SMEs and adopting more and more market-oriented approaches. For example, new government seed funds has moved from the traditional direct subsidies to equity holding and other means of joint investment. With optimization of fund raising, management, investment and exit modes, an integration of the efficient market and proper government actions has been formed in concrete manifestation of implementing the Central Government’s requirements. In addition, with the development of the Internet and big data, there is a broad prospect of harnessing technological means to solve the financing problems. Leveraging on the development of Internet finance, we can improve the capacity of financial supply and enhanced financial inclusiveness. We are paying close attention to these emerging trends and will organize experience-sharing sessions, build information-sharing platforms and support local equity markets. This afternoon we will have a dialogue session on related topics.   Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, support and participation from all walks of society, especially local governments are indispensable to healthy and orderly development of the multi-tiered capital market. The Shenzhen Stock Exchange will strengthen communication, coordination and cooperation with all interested parties and promote the multi-tiered capital market in a concerted effort. I look forward to your in-depth discussion and unreserved comments. I would like to wish this conference the best of success! Thank you!

Boost Employee Stock Ownership Plan Business Refine Information Disclosure Requirement
date:2014-11-21
--SZSE Issue Memo of Information Disclosure on Employee Stock Ownership Plan In order to carry out Guidance on Trial of Employee Stock Ownership Plan of Public Companies (hereinafter referred as Guidance) issued by China Securities Regulatory Commission, propel and guide the public companies to carry out employee stock ownership plan in compliance with law effectively, and standardize the information disclosure of the public companies and relevant parties, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) recently issued Memo of Information Disclosure on Employee Stock Ownership Plan (hereinafter referred as Memo).   Adhering to the philosophy of deregulation, strengthening supervision, convenient operation, combing with the employee stock ownership plan launched by companies listed on Shenzhen Market, Memo, on the basis of major principles and crucial requirement of Guidance, further refined the requirement on information disclosure of scheming, examination and review, implementation of employee stock ownership plan. Major contents and features of Memo are reflected on the following aspects:   Firstly, the standard requirement on similar employee stock ownership plan is explicitly defined. Memo is not only applicable for the employee stock ownership plan stipulated in the Guidance, but also applicable for similar employee stock ownership plan implemented by directors, supervisors and senior management or other employee of the public company via launching asset management plan, trust plan, etc..   Secondly, guidance on operation of insider information management is strengthened. Memo guides public companies to strengthen insider information management, prevent the advance leakage of insider information, and protect the interests of small-and-medium investors via issuing reminder announcement or applying for trading suspension; meanwhile Memo standardizes the disclosure content of reminder announcement, guiding public companies to resolve the risk of leakage of insider information through disclosing information in stages.   Thirdly, the requirement on draft of plan and disclosure on major alteration in the follow-up stage is refined. Memo enhances the transparency of information disclosure on employee stock ownership plan in two major aspects: first, the requirement on disclosure on the draft of employee stock ownership plan is further refined. For example, arrangement of lock-up period, procedure of duration extension, classified disclosure of the shareholding by directors, supervisors, senior management and ordinary employee who participated the plan, and risk separation arrangement under the self-management pattern, etc. should be disclosed; second, requirement on ad hoc information disclosure is increased when major impact occurs to the plan, for example, alteration, advance termination of the employee stock ownership plan occur, or a third person puts forward proposition regarding the stock and capital of the employee stock ownership plan, etc..  Fourthly, lawyer’s responsibility of checking the law compliance of the plan is explicitly stipulated. Memo, on the basis of the Guidance, refined the requirement on the legal opinion document, requiring lawyer to issue their opinion on the law compliance of the participants, source of capital, source, duration, scale and management pattern of the stock in the legal opinion documents, supervising and urging lawyers to shoulder the duty of checking the law compliance of the plan to ensure that the employee stock ownership plan is implemented in compliance with law effectively.

Innovation Development Committee of SZSE Board of Directors Founded
date:2014-11-21
On November 18, the founding meeting of Innovation Development Committee under the Board of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) was held. At the meeting, the founding background was briefed, the working rules were approved, and the existing situation, problems and thoughts of work on product innovation were especially discussed. Supervisory departments and industry associations were also invited to introduce the innovation and development in the market and industries.   The founding of the Innovation Development Committee is a significant move by SZSE to implement the “New National Nine Positive Stimuli” and to exert the connecting function of capital market in innovation and development. It creates an important communication platform the for the Exchange and market players to jointly participate, design and promote market innovation, which is conducive to further perfect the governance structure of the Board of SZSE, enhance scientific decision-making and prevent conflicts of interests, and strengthen the pertinence, effectiveness and transparency of innovation work.   It is known that the Committee is composed of principals and experts from industry associations, members of the exchange, fund companies, venture capital and private placement funds, and foreign institutions. It’s responsible for study and argument on major innovation with regards to products, business, trading system reform that might have great impact on the market, and significant innovation on trading platform that involves industrial development, and thus providing advice and suggestions to the board of directors.   Excepted from the Innovation Development Committee, the Board of SZSE founded the Strategic Planning Committee at the end of last month and will further establish a self-regulatory committee. All together with the previous founded committees of SME Cultivation and Development, Appeal and Review, and Risk Management, there will be 6 special committees under the Board of SZSE.

To Accelerate Development of Exchange-traded Fund Market by Standardizing Processes and Encouraging Innovation
date:2014-11-21
-- SZSE Guidelines for Fund Products Development and Services Innovation Promulgated   To further promote the development of exchange-traded fund market and better serve market players, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) today officially promulgated the Guidelines for Fund Products Development and Services Innovation (hereinafter “Products and Services Guidelines”) , based on opinions from fund managers and industrial experts.   As introduced by SZSE, the Products and Services Guidelines mainly contains the following contents: - first, establishing standardized and transparent rules and procedures for products and services, and specifying required application materials involved in products development, and procedures and time schedule for product acceptance; - second, encouraging market innovation by supporting and protecting fund managers who intend to develop innovative products, and assisting fund managers to perfect product schemes by providing services such as product and risk assessment, technological development, etc.; - third, introducing competition mechanism to allow several fund managers to develop one single index product including SZSE indices, and promoting market development in competition.   The enforcement of the New Fund Law in 2013 and the promulgation of the Opinions on Promoting Industrial Innovation for Securities Investment Funds in June this year create a favorable external environment for the innovative development of publicly offered funds, especially exchange-traded funds. Taking the opportunity of the promulgation of the Products and Services Guidelines, SZSE will accelerate trading platform construction and matching institutional improvement for exchange-traded funds, fully respect the core role of market players in innovative development, and push forward the sustained, rapid and healthy development of exchange-traded fund market.  Adhering to the service concept of “Positive and Open, Quality and Efficient”, SZSE has established cooperation with 60 fund managers in recent years. A complete production line, including LOF, ETF, classified funds and closed-end funds and covering markets home and abroad, has taken its initial shape, which fulfills diversified demands on wealth management, and provides investors with an efficient, convenient and low-cost platform allocated with all classes of assets.

SZSE and SSE Unfold Discussion on Deepening Cooperation
date:2014-11-14
Recently, board chairman of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) Wu Lijun and the delegation visited Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), and had substantial communication with the board chairman of SSE Gui Minjie, and General Manager Huang Hongyuan on the subject of how capital market support the national strategy with better services. Both sides will further deepen communication and cooperation. It is reported that under the leadership of China Securities Regulatory Commission, SZSE and SSE, based on the demand of general strategy of capital market development, would energetically push forward and implement major reform and innovative measures of capital market, carry out market organizing and self-regulatory functions, give a full play to the role of capital market in optimizing the resource allocation, improve the market development, further enhance the service efficiency, lower the market cost, prevent the market risk, protect the legal rights and interests of the investors, and jointly promote the steady and sound development of the multilayer capital market in the country.

SZSE Launched Mergers and Acquisitions Private Placement Bonds
date:2014-11-6
In order to carry out The Opinion of the State Council on Further Optimizing the Market Environment for the Mergers and Acquisitions of Enterprises (The State Council Issued (2014) No.14), expand the financing channel for mergers and acquisitions activities, and give a full play to capital market’s role in supporting the real economy, Shenzhen and Shanghai stock exchanges issued Circular on Trial of Mergers and Acquisitions Private Placement Bonds Business (hereinafter referred as Circular), on the basis of successful experience of trial of SME private placement bonds.   According to Circular, merger and acquisition bonds refer to corporate bonds privately placed or transferred in China by corporate legal person, which registered within the territory of China, for the purpose of carrying out mergers and acquisitions, and with the stipulation that the principal and interest of the bond should be repaid within certain period. Comparing with SME private placement bonds, the issuing body of mergers and acquisitions bond is not confined to small-and-medium-size enterprise, and its raising fund should be used in supporting the enterprise’ mergers and acquisitions activities, which include paying the consideration of mergers and acquisitions, replacing the loan for mergers and acquisitions, etc.   As introduced by relevant principal from SZSE, the existing business framework and electronic application channel of the SME private placement bonds would be adopted for the record filing and application of mergers and acquisitions bonds. In order to strengthen the investor protection system and risk prevention, issuer of mergers and acquisitions bonds should stipulated in the prospectus the purpose and supervision system of raising fund, setting up supervising account for raising fund, hiring supervision bank; meanwhile, arrangement of investor protection systems such as the guarantee system for repaying bonds, settlement arrangement, dividend distribution policy, trusteeship management and bond holders’ meeting should be explicitly defined; in the event that situation of affecting the benefit of investors occurs, for example, the termination of mergers and acquisitions or cross default, risk prevention measures including arrangement of repaying the principal and interest in advance of time should be stipulated.    Launching mergers and acquisitions bonds is an important measure of the exchange market in supporting the enterprises to conduct mergers and acquisitions. It not only provides convenient debt financing channel for the related body of mergers and acquisitions, but also further enrich the production line of exchange private placement bonds, providing more bond investment varieties for investors. Relevant principal from SZSE indicated that SZSE would accelerate the building of innovative platform for fixed income products, actively explore the innovative varieties of private placement bonds on the basis of strengthening the risk prevention, and further promote the steady development of exchange bond market.

Strategic Planning Committee of SZSE Board of Directors Founded
date:2014-11-4
On October 31, at the 5th anniversary of the launch of the ChiNext Board, the founding meeting of Strategic Planning Committee under the Board of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) was held in SZSE. On the meeting, the founding background of Strategic Planning Committee was introduced and the operating situation of the ChiNext Board during these five years since its establishment was presented. Cored with the subject of ‘Focusing on the Development of the ChiNext Board, Serving the Innovation Force Strategy’, committee members from securities companies, investment banks and fund companies of domestic and foreign markets emphasized on discussing topics of the ChiNext Board’s service to national Innovation Force Strategy, its catering for the strategic emerging industries, and market-oriented internationalized reform.   Excepted from Strategic Planning Committee, the Board of SZSE will further establish self-regulatory, innovation development committees. All together with the previous founded SME Cultivation and Development, Appeal and Review, Risk Management committees, there will be 6 special committees under Board of SZSE.   As currently the development of multi-layer capital market is on a critical strategic opportunity stage, and it has been explicitly put forward in the New National Nine that leading role of the stock exchange should be strengthened in the market, and orderly processing of major reform such as the transformation of supervisory role and registration system, and the exchange further promote the market-oriented internationalization, all market participants should be mobilized to improve the governing role of the Board of SZSE. Setting up special committees in the management structure is an established practice of exchanges in different countries to enhance the science of decision making and prevention of benefit conflict. As demonstrated by practice of SZSE in previous years, setting up special committees was an effective way of playing the role of the board. Improving the structure of special committees, building up multiple dimensionality of exchange and discussion platform that covers strategic planning, supervisory role transformation, innovative development and risk management, and building up an effective communicative bridge between the exchange and the major market participants, will be conducive for the exchange to foster a good external environment for its reform and development, enhance the transparence, containment and coverage of its management structure, and lay foundation for its exploration of further market-oriented reform.

SZSE Held 5th Session of ‘Foreign Investors Approaching Companies Listed on the ChiNext Board’ Activity
date:2014-11-4
Recently, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) organized the 5th session of ‘Foreign Investors Approaching Listed Company’ activity. 30 foreign investors from the United States, Singapore, Malaysia, and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China, and Taiwan Region of China visited six companies listed on the ChiNext, including Tempus Global, Tianyuan Dic, Centre Testing, Tatfook Technology, Jufei Optoelectronics, Sunwoda, and had thorough exchange with the senior managements of the companies. These foreign investors also visited the market supervision system of SZSE, learned about the supervision system of the ChiNext Board market. This event is one of the series activities that mark the 5th anniversary of the launch of the ChiNext Board.   The Companies visited by the investors were all those engaged in the sectors of e-commerce, electronic information, high-end equipment manufacturing. Foreign institution investors showed intense attention on innovative sectors, focusing on the core competitiveness of the enterprises, future development plan and related technology reservation, profit model and acquisition and reorganization plan during their conversation with the senior management of the companies. SZSE have so far organized five sessions of ‘Foreign Investors Approaching Listed Companies’ activities and two company road shows oriented towards foreign investors, aiming at enhancing foreign investors’ acquaintance with companies listed on Shenzhen Market, and boosting public companies’ level of managing international investors relation. Furthermore, SZSE have issued English version of market brief to the foreign investors in every week, and intensified the depth of information service, releasing various English versions of magazine and newspaper; SZSES will strengthen its promotion in the international capital market, and share its innovative practice experience of fostering multiple capital market system with the international peer. Meanwhile, SZSE will guide the public companies to release English version of annual report.

Shenzhen Stock Exchange Signs MOU with Korea Exchange
date:2014-11-4
The Shenzhen Stock Exchange and the Korea Exchange signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on 27 October, 2014 in Seoul. Mr. Wu Lijun, Chairman of the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Dr. Kyungsoo Choi, Chairman and CEO of the Korea Exchange signed the MOU representing each exchange.   Mr. Wu noted that the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and the Korea Exchange are both committed to developing multi-tiered capital markets with many similarities in market structure. In recent years, China and ROK have built closer economic ties and economic cooperation forged ahead in many fronts. As a result, the need for cooperation in capital markets has become more urgent than ever before. Mr. Wu also said that the new MOU makes breakthroughs in product development, and cross-listing of products.   Dr. Choi pointed out that the MOU sets forth new commitments on cooperating areas such as cross-listing of index products, development of a common index, and joint research projects regarding development of bond market, development of off-shore Chinese Yuan product, support for SMEs and dual listing.   About Shenzhen Stock Exchange The Shenzhen Stock Exchange operates a multi-tiered capital market to facilitate fund-raising for companies of different sizes and at different stages of growth. It now lists 1,595 companies, with 480 on the Main Board, 723 on the SME Board and 392 on the ChiNext Market. The total market capitalization of listed companies was valued at US$1.9 trillion. The SZSE has initiated asset-backed securities for infrastructure projects and microloan companies in support of the real economy. The SZSE also created a private placement bond market for unlisted SMEs. The SZSE also operates an all-in-one information disclosure and investor education portal, integrating all corporate disclosure documents, a mock trading system, analytical tools and interactive dialogues with corporate executives. To learn more, please visit www.szse.cn/main/en for general information and http://irm.cninfo.com.cn/szse/ for interactive corporate disclosure and investor relation services.   About Korea Exchange Korea Exchange is the sole securities and derivative market in ROK. KOSPI Market is one of the leading equity markets and KOSDAQ Market is a representative SME market in the world. KOSPI 200 options used to be the mostly traded equity index option and KOSPI 200 futures also ranks 10th among equity index futures products in the world in 2013. It now lists 1,848 companies, with 1,013 on the Main Board, 773 on the SME Board and 62 on the KONEX Market. The total market capitalization of listed companies was valued at KRW 1,343 trillion (Aug 2014). To learn more about KRX, please visit http://eng.krx.co.kr.

NASDAQ AND SHENZHEN STOCK EXCHANGE SIGN MOU
date:2014-10-29
SEOUL, SOUTH KOREA —Nasdaq (Nasdaq: NDAQ) and Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) at the World Federation of Exchanges’ annual General Assembly to strengthen cooperation and promote mutual development between the two exchanges. SZSE’s Chairman Wu Lijun as well as Nasdaq’s Vice Chairman Sandy Frucher and Executive Vice President and Head of Market Technology Lars Ottersgard were present at the signing ceremony today.   “The MoU marks a breakthrough in the cooperation between Nasdaq and SZSE, said Mr. Wu Lijun, Chairman of SZSE. “In background of economic transition and upgrading in China, the Chinese capital market offers historic opportunities for product introduction and system innovation, paving the way for in-depth cooperation between the exchanges in areas of link-up of IT systems and index-based products. Connecting and leveraging on advantages of both markets, we look forward to constructive development through mutual cooperation.”   According to the MOU, SZSE and Nasdaq will explore carrying out extensive collaborative opportunities regarding information sharing, market link-up (including potential cross listing of index products), mutual assistance, link-up of IT systems, and overall exploration of research and development initiatives.   “Nasdaq is honored to sign this new collaborative agreement with SZSE,” said Mr. Frucher. “Our goal is to strengthen our relationship further with one of China’s leading exchanges, and a true market leader in the North Asia region. We look forward to the opportunities and overall mutual benefits with partnering with SZSE.”   About Nasdaq Nasdaq (Nasdaq: NDAQ) is a leading provider of trading, exchange technology, information and public company services across six continents. Through its diverse portfolio of solutions, Nasdaq enables customers to plan, optimize and execute their business vision with confidence, using proven technologies that provide transparency and insight for navigating today’s global capital markets.  As the creator of the world’s first electronic stock market, its technology powers more than 70 marketplaces in 50 countries, and 1 in 10 of the world's securities transactions. Nasdaq is home to more than 3,500 listed companies with a market value of over $8.8 trillion and more than 10,000 corporate clients. To learn more, visit  www.nasdaq.com/ambition  or www.nasdaqomx.com.   About Shenzhen Stock Exchange The Shenzhen Stock Exchange operates a multi-tiered capital market to facilitate fund-raising for companies of different sizes and at different stages of growth. It now lists 1,595 companies, with 480 on the Main Board, 723 on the SME Board and 392 on the ChiNext Market. The total market capitalization of listed companies was valued at US$1.9 trillion. The SZSE has initiated asset-backed securities for infrastructure projects and microloan companies in support of the real economy. The SZSE also created a private placement bond market for unlisted SMEs. The SZSE also operates an all-in-one information disclosure and investor education portal, integrating all corporate disclosure documents, a mock trading system, analytical tools and interactive dialogues with corporate executives. To learn more, please visit www.szse.cn/main/en  for general information and http://irm.cninfo.com.cn/szse/ for interactive corporate disclosure and investor relation services.      

Approach E Fund, Perceive the ChiNext ETF
date:2014-10-28
On October 24, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) organized the first session of ‘Approaching Fund Companies Activity’, which was held in E Fund Management Co., Ltd., inviting investors of the ChiNext ETF from various securities companies to have a face-to-face exchange with the fund managers of the ChiNext ETF.   Relevant staff from SZSE expressed that SZSE have been actively engaged in forging the Listed Fund Market into a ‘fund super-market’, which had complete range of function, various products and trading convenience. As of September 30, 2014, there are 323 funds listed in SZSE, with 107.35 billion exchange entrusted fund units, and 125.628 billion yuan of asset scale. After the launch of the ChiNext, related financial investment instruments and products witness a rapid growth, with more fund products coming out successively.   As introduced by Wang Jianjun, Fund Manager of E Fund ChiNext ETF, E Fund Company, with the support of SZSE, issued the first index fund that track the ChiNext Index closely—E Fund ChiNext ETF, which became a widely popular investment product in the market. Relevant data shows that, the net value of ChiNext ETF grew at 69.18%, and its annual yield reaching 18.56% from its establishment on September 20, 2011 to October 21, 2014.   Investors, who attended the meeting, have abundant investment experience in securities market and the ChiNext Board. They expressed in the exchange that, as most of companies listed on the ChiNext Board were innovative and growth enterprises, ChiNext ETF investment index was conducive for them to grasp the opportunity of the ChiNext Board, and enable them to share the high growth of the companies listed on the ChiNext Board.   ‘Approaching Fund Companies Activity’ is a component of SZSE’s series activities of ‘5th Anniversary of the ChiNext Board, Propel China with Innovation’. At the same period, SZSE also launched activities such as ‘Approaching Companies Listed on the ChiNext Board’, ‘Foreign Investors Approaching Companies Listed on the ChiNext Board’, organizing domestic and foreign investors to conduct field survey on the listed companies, enable them to understand the leverage of the ChiNext Board market played in China’s economic transition. 

The Controlling Shareholder of Tiansheng Cancel Proxy Voting Right
date:2014-10-28
Changzhou Tiansheng New Materials Co., Ltd. disclosed on October 22, 2014 that its shareholders Lv Zewei, Sun Jian, Wu Haizhou, Xu Yi had signed an agreement that the shareholders’ voting right in correspondence of 23.81% share had been entrusted to Hangzhou Shuncheng Equity Investment Partnership (Limited Partnership) to execute, which made Hangzhou Shuncheng the new controlling shareholder and Zhaobing the new de facto controller of the company.   Noticing this event during the afterward examination, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) have issued enquiry letters to the listed company and relevant parties to enquiry matters regarding the trading objectives, the law compliance, impact on the listed company, and risk. Relevant persons have also been interviewed by the SZSE.   As indicated by both parties of the agreement, the original objective of the agreement was to introduce new shareholder into the company on the premise of legal compliance, injecting quality asset to and accelerating the development of the company. They had least inclination to evade the regulation that ‘back-door listing is not allowed for the companies listed on the ChiNext Board’.   After they cautious consideration, both sides of the agreement deemed that even though the controlling shareholder’s proxy voting right was not banned in the law and regulation, it would cause harmful impact on the company’s stable operation and management. Both sides have fully understood the risk that might involved in the controlling shareholder’s proxy voting rights. In order to maintain the stable operation and management of the company, and avoid the market speculation, both sides, after considerable consultation, agreed to cancel all the clauses concerning the shareholder’s proxy voting right in the above-mentioned agreement. After the cancellation of the above-mentioned clauses in the agreement, there will be no alteration in the status of controlling shareholder and de facto controller of the company.   Relevant principal from SZSE expressed that public companies should strengthen their standard operation in compliance with the law and regulation. SZSE, while encouraging the public companies to speed up their development via acquisition and reorganization, require the public company to abide by the regulation that ‘back-door listing is not allowed for the ChiNext Board’.

First Batch of Money ETF Listed and Traded in SZSE
date:2014-10-22
On October 20, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) issued the first batch of exchange traded money market funds (short for ‘money ETF’). Money ETF, upgrading and transforming on the basis of original exchange subscription and redemption money fund, is not only a significant innovation launched by SZSE this year, but also an important measure of carrying out the New National Nine and Opinion on Promoting the Innovative Development of Securities Invested Fund Sector.   After reform and transformation, the original exchange money funds: E Funds SWIFT Cash Money Market Fund (Code: 159001, Abbreviation: SWIFT Money) and China Merchants Security Deposit Fast-swing Money Market Fund (Code: 159003, Abbreviation: China Merchants Fast-swing) were traded actively on the first day of listing, with high turnover rates and stable trading prices. The turnover of SWIFT Money reached 476 million yuan, and its turnover rate reached 169%, while the turnover of China Merchants Fast-swing (159003) reached 195 million yuan, and its turnover rate reached 89%. The price fluctuation of two funds was narrow, with the deviation between the trading price of more than 99% transactions and 100 yuan net value less than 0.001%, reflecting the high-efficiency and low risk features of cash margin management instrument.   With the features of good liquidity, low risk, stable return and low trading cost, money ETF is an ideal margin management instrument for the exchange investors. Investors can get back the money via redemption as before, and via selling their holding money fund unit through secondary market, and the money received after the transaction may be used immediately in the purchasing stocks and other assets, enabling the investors to seize any fleeting investment opportunities; while enjoying stable investment return of money fund, investors may also avoid the liquidity risk of failing to redeem the fund in the event of triggering ceiling of redemption under the extreme market condition.   As the securities market gradually rebound, money ETF present a promising prospect. The number of newly-open securities accounts broke its record again and again this year, and the securities margin witnessed net inflow in 3 consecutive Quarters, rising from less than 600 billion yuan to 1.2 trillion yuan. It is forecasted that investors’ demand for cash management will increasingly escalate. With more and more stable investment return and improving liquidity, money ETF enjoys a vast development space.

Comprehensive Implementation of Opinions on Delisting, And Listing Rules Revised
date:2014-10-21
The SZSE officially released The Rule on Share Listing (Amended in 2014) and Rules Governing the Listing of Shares on the ChiNext Board of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (Amended in 2014) (both hereinafter referred as The Listing Rules), and solicited public opinions on two ancillary regulations of Implementation Measures on Re-listing of Delisting Companies (Amended in 2014) and Special Regulation on Business during Delisting Transitional Period (Amended in 2014).   A SZSE representative in charge indicated that the delisting system for listed issuers was an important fundamental system of the capital market. Recently, China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) issued Opinions on Reform, Improvement and Strict Implementation of Public Company Delisting System (hereinafter referred as Opinions on Delisting), as an important means to fulfil the requirement of ‘Improving the Delisting System’ put forward by the State Council in its official document Further Promotion of Healthy Development of the Capital Market (hereinafter referred as the New National Nine). Opinions on Delisting is of great significance to further improve the fundamental system of capital market, enhance the market function of resource allocation, and protection of legal rights and interests of investors, especially those of vast small- and medium-cap investors. On the basis of extensive solicitation of the public opinions, SZSE revised its The Listing Rules.   This SZSE representative updated the audience on opinion solicitation and revision of The Listing Rules. During the period of solicitation, the SZSE collected opinions from all walks of life by organizing seminars, and by feedback mailboxes and attached great importance to the comments, opinions and suggestions of various media on delisting system reform. The SZSE have received 36 emails, 2 mails and paid close attention to more than 220 influential media reports. On July 21, SZSE organized a listing rule public opinion solicitation symposium, which was attended by representatives from 13 public companies, securities companies and fund management companies.   In general, the reform on delisting system received positive responses from various market participants, with relevant opinions and suggestions primarily concentrated on the protection of the rights and interest of investors, and punishment on major unlawful behaviors. After serious research, the SZSE has made the following supplements and improvements on The Listing Rules: firstly, internal decision-making procedure on initiative delisting has been improved. According to the original regulation, ‘2/3 of voting shares represented by the shareholders attended the meeting is required to pass the resolution’. As the amended regulation stipulates,  ‘2/3 of voting shares represented by shareholders except directors, supervisors, senior management, or shareholders alone or aggregately holding more than 5% of the company’s share and who attended the meeting is required to pass the resolution.  Secondly, the condition for trading resumption or re-listing of companies delisted due to the major violation of the information disclosure regulation has been clarified. The regulation on ‘comprehensive rectification of violation behaviors, and dismissing or replacement of the relevant personnel and appropriate arrangement on taking the responsibility of civil compensation’ have been elaborated in detail, and ‘restriction on reduction of shareholding of relevant subjects’ has been stipulated. Thirdly, the risk notice during the investigation period of listed companies has been strengthened. On the basis of the original regulations that provided that the companies under investigation for suspected major law violation should disclose the notice of risk of listing suspension once a month, the amended regulation has increased the frequency of disclosure of risk notice a the board of directors or the SZSE deems necessary. Fourthly, reexamination procedures of application for re-listing have been added. To guarantee the fairness of the procedure, the reexamination procedure on the applicators’ decision on re-listing has been reinforced so as to substantially protect the interests of applicators and vast investors.   The SZSE representative indicated that SZSE is responsible for implementing the delisting system. The SZSE will, in line with the requirement of Opinions on Delisting and The Listing Rules, will amend the ancillary rules of the delisting transition, the re-listing of delisted companies as soon as possible, and intensify implementation of the delisting system. All companies that should be delisted will be delisted so that seriousness and authority of the delisting system is maintained.  

SZSE Released Measures on Trial of Short-term Corporate Bonds of Securities Companies
date:2014-10-20
In order to further expand the financing channel of securities companies, and boost the standard development of exchange bond market, Shenzhen Stock Exchange(SZSE) and Shanghai Stock Exchange recently released Measures on Trial of Short-term Corporate Bonds of Securities Companies (hereinafter referred as Trial Measures), which allow securities companies and China securities financial limited liability companies that acquired the qualification of trial bonds issuance from China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) to issue short-term corporate bonds.   According to the Trial Measures, short-term corporate bonds of securities companies refer to the corporate bonds issued by securities companies that aim for short-term financing, and are stipulated to repay the principals and interest within one year.  Short-term bonds of securities companies adopt balance management, i.e., securities companies will decide the issuing time, duration, and scale of bonds of different trenches on their own discretion within the scope stipulated by CSRC after filing record to the exchange. Similar to the private placement bonds of small-and-medium-size companies, short-term corporate bonds of securities companies adopt strict investor appropriateness management system, narrowing the size of investors down to 200 per tranche. In respect of their specific record filing procedures, SZSE will refer to the relevant measures on private placement bonds of small-and-medium-size companies, and launch convenient electronic material filing declaration channel, which will guarantee that the Notice of Acceptance of Record Filing will be issued within 10 working days.   With the official launch of short-term bonds of securities companies, the variety of exchange private placement bonds that represent the market-oriented principle enriched, with exchange private placement bonds’ market scale increasingly expanded and market risk control mechanism more effective. As of October 14, 2014, 267 private placement bonds were issued in Shenzhen Market, raising 28.802 billion yuan, and 3 convertible private placement bonds were issued, raising 1.8165 billion yuan. Relevant principal from SZSE expressed that SZSE will continue to accelerate the building of innovative platform of fix-income products, and energetically probe into the innovation of variety of private placement bonds on the basis of strengthening the risk prevention and control, and further promote the steady development of exchange bonds market.

SZSE Released Implementation Rules on Trading, Subscription and Redemption of Fund
date:2014-10-15
Today, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) promulgated Shenzhen Stock Exchange Implementation Rules on Trading, Subscription and Redemption of Securities Invested Fund (hereinafter referred as Rules on Trading and Subscription of Fund), which systematically classified and integrated the existing rule on trading, subscription and redemption of fund, changing the situation of lack of system of rules on fund trading, subscription and redemption. This act, as an important measure of SZSE actively pushing forward service innovation, continuously improving the fundamental development, in implementation of the spirit of the Third Plenary Session of the 18th Central Committee of CPC and requirement of the New National Nine, is conducive for further advancing the development and innovation of exchange fund market and better serving the market participants.   Comparing with the existing rule system, Rules on Trading and Subscription of Fund primarily has the following amendment and supplement: firstly, the definition of four categories of listed funds, including ETF, LOF, classified fund and close-end fund,  are explicitly defined, and ETF is expanded as non-index fund; secondly, relevant business scope of trading, subscription and redemption of monetary ETF is expanded so as to cater the demand of listing and trading of exchange traded monetary ETF; thirdly, the rules on block trading of fund unit is defined, and the regulation on the using of fund unit in case of fund block trading, bidding, subscription, redemption is specified. Fourthly, the principle regulation of protecting investors is added.   In recent years, with ‘forging fund supermarket’ as its goal, SZSE has promoted in a pro-active manner the development of listed fund market, which contains four categories of products, including LOF, ETF, classified fund and close-end fund, and which covers integrated fund product lines in domestics and overseas markets. As of September 30, 2014, there are 323 fund listed on SZSE, with their exchange net asset value being about 125.6 billion Yuan. Relevant principal from SZSE indicated that the promulgation and implementation of Rules on Trading and Subscription of Fund further improved the fundamental system of SZSE fund market, and was beneficial for the investors to understand the rules on the trading, subscription and redemption of fund systematically and comprehensively, and reserved space for the innovation of product and business of listed fund. For the next step, SZSE will further improve the function of fund trading platform, and give a full play to the pro-activeness of market participants, promoting the innovative development of fund market. SZSE will, firstly, optimize the fund trading mechanism and platform and improve the relevant matching system; secondly, develop the long-term mechanism of market training, enrich fund product system, and enhance the market liquidity; thirdly, promote the product innovation, launch monetary ETF as soon as possible, and propel the commodity futures ETF and cross-listing of fund in Shenzhen and Hong Kong markets, so as to cater the market development needs.  

SZSE Medium-and-high Credit and Medium-and-low Credit Indices Issued
date:2014-9-26
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. recently announced to issue SZSE Medium-and-high Credit Index (Code: 399298, Abbreviation: SZSE Medium-and-high Credit) and SZSE Medium-and-low Credit Index (Code: 399299, Abbreviation: SZSE Medium-and-low Credit) on September 25, 2014. The two indices were designed to reflect the overall operation feature of credit bonds of different credits in Shenzhen Market, and facilitate the continuous development and innovation of indexation investment. Both indices take December 31, 2008 as base day and 1000 point as the base value.   As China’s credit market is undergoing an accelerated dividing stage, with the credit bond market distinctively divided into two markets: medium-and-high credit bonds market and low-credit-but-high-yield bonds market, the investors’ needs for segmented credit bonds are even stronger. Meanwhile, the earning trend of credit bonds in Shenzhen Market is of apparent Shenzhen Market feature, which is more sensitive to the credit risk. SZSE Medium-and-high Credit Index and SZSE Medium-and-low Credit Index, combining the feature and market standard of credit bonds, and intensifying the credit risk management in the index design, are capable of meeting the bond indexation investment needs of investors, who are of different risk preferences.   The corporate bonds of non-ST companies listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange are served as SZSE Medium-and-high Credit Index’s and SZSE Medium-and-low Credit Index’s sample space, among which, bonds, whose residual duration exceed one year, and whose are fixed interest or whose interest and principal are paid at one time, are selected as optional sample pool. The investment bonds, whose credit grade above AA+ and below AA+, are selected from the optional sample pool to form the sample for the SZSE Medium-and-high Credit Index and SZSE Medium-and-low Credit Index respectively. The indices adopt the bonds’ issuing volume as weights, and the sample will be adjusted on the first trading date of each month.   As data shows, the earnings of SZSE Medium-and-high Credit Index and SZSE Medium-and-low Credit Index display very noticeable differences, with the accumulated earning of SZSE Medium-and-high Credit Index and SZSE Medium-and-low Credit Index being 30.66% and 40.41% respectively from the base day to the end of August, 2014.  More specific material on the indices can be found on the website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and the website of CNI Index (www.cnindex.com.cn).

SZSE Held Express Business Operation Training on New Online Voting Regulation
date:2014-9-23
Recently, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) held Express Business Operation Training on New Online Voting Regulation, attended by more than 2600 board secretaries and securities affair representatives from 1595 public companies. Via on-spot training and online live video, the training unfolded five parts of contents, including the background of launching the new regulations on online voting and differences between the new and oldspider regulations on online voting, detailed operation of online voting, regulations on general meeting information disclosure, choice of announcement categories and operation risk control of express information disclosure, periodical report fill-in system.   Relevant principal from SZSE indicated that, against the backdrop that SZSE have just released new Implementation Rules on Online Voting at the General Meeting of Listed Company and Business Guidance on Identification of the Investors’ Online Identity recently, and that Information Disclosure Express have been launched for a while, this training was designed to assist the board secretaries and securities affair representatives of public companies to fully comprehend the regulation, and properly handle the transition of new and oldspider regulations, so that they can better use the listed company’s information disclosure system, and prevent and control the business risk.    The principal also expressed that the prioritized and upgraded online voting system will be officially launched on September 22, 2014, by the time of which, more convenient and high efficient general meeting voting approach will be provided to the investors, and investors will be better protected in participating in the decision making. Meanwhile, the new online voting system increased on-spot voting assistant system to improve the data collection and statistics efficiency of online voting. This training aimed at helping the public companies to comprehend the relevant regulations and operation details, so as to guarantee sooth implementation of the forthcoming brand new online voting system. In the future, SZSE will carry out further works on protection on investors’ rights and interests, and facilitate the sound development of multi-tier capital market.

The 4th Quarter Regular Sample Adjustment of ChiNext Index
date:2014-9-15
Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. jointly announced to make the 4th Quarter regular adjustment, in line with the index compiling rule, to the sample stocks of ChiNext Index, effective as of the first trading of October, 2014.   According to the announcement on the regular adjustment to the index sample stocks, 6 sample stocks will be adjusted to ChiNext Index, with Tianyuan Dic, Highlander and Taisheng Wind Power, etc., to be swapped in as sample stocks, whereas Wanshun, Longyuan and Combustion Control Technology etc., to be swapped out of the sample stocks pool.   The feature of emerging industries reflected by ChiNext Index is more prominent after several regular sample adjustments. The weight of primary sector---information and technology sector is on a rising trending, being 30%, 32%, 35%, 36% respectively after the 4 recent regular sample adjustments. And the total weight of 4 major sectors, including information and technology, health care, consumer discretionary, telecommunication services, increases a great deal, rising from 66% at the beginning of the year to 72% this time.   As revealed from the most recent disclosed 2014 interim reports, after the sample adjustment, the gross margin of the sample stocks reach 37%, reflecting strong profitability of the sample stocks. The operating revenue and net profit of the sample stocks increased 33% and 17% respectively comparing with those of the same period last year, presenting sound growth; moreover, the sample stocks of ChiNext Index attach importance to the investment on research and development, which take up 5% of the expenses, far exceeding the market average level.   More specific material on the Index can be found on the website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and the website of CNI Index （www.cnindex.com.cn）.

Big Data Series Indices Issued
date:2014-9-15
Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd., China Southern Asset Management Co., Ltd. and Beijing SINA Internet Information Service Co. Ltd. recently announced to issue Big Data Series indices on September 12, 2014. The Big Data Series indices include CNI Big Data 100 Index (Code: 399415, Abbreviation: i100), CNI Big Data 300 Index (Code: 399416, Abbreviation: i300), both of which take January 29, 2010 as the base day and 1000 point as the base value.   In recent years, the influence of internet finance has merged into every domain of traditional finance, with the application of internet big data shown in the core link of asset management industry. There is no such strategy stock index currently in the country that base on and select sample stock by virtue of the investment sentiment dug from the financial media and social platform until the debut of the Big Data Series indices, which offer a new investment instrument that could further meet the diverse investment needs of investors.   Big data acquired from SINA Finance, including click rate of the page of certain stock under Stock Channel of SINA Finance, and the positive and negative influence of the news report and the article posted on the micro-blog, have been qualitatively and quantitatively analyzed to measure the investors' investment sentiment and investors’ comment on single stock. On such basis, as well as upon the consideration of the stock fundamentals and market trading data, stocks with excess gain expectation are selected to form the sample stocks for the indices. The sample stocks will be adjusted regularly on a monthly basis. The issue of Big Data Series indices is not only a pro-active exploration and practice that combine the analysis of investors’ behavior and traditional fundamental analysis, but also a beneficial innovation on the basis of compilation of traditional indices.   As the data suggested, the Big Data Series indices have outstanding market performance. From the base day to August 29, 2014, the accumulative gain of the i100 and i300 are 258% and 161% respectively. Comparing with the accumulative gain of CSI 300 over the same period, being -27%, those of i100 and i300 exceed by 285% and 188% respectively.   More specific material on the Big Data Series indices can be found on the website of CNI Index （www.cnindex.com.cn）.

March into New On-line Voting Era
date:2014-9-10
--SZSE Optimized and Upgraded Online Voting System   Recently, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) released revised Shenzhen Stock Exchange Implementation Rules on Online Voting at the General Meeting of Listed Company (hereinafter referred as Implementation Rules) and Shenzhen Stock Exchange Business Guidance on Identification of the Investors’ Online Identity (hereinafter referred as Business Guidance), prioritizing and upgrading online voting system comprehensively. The optimization and upgrading of online voting system is an important measure of implementing relevant regulations of the State Council’s 9 New Opinion and Opinion on Further Reinforcing the Protection of the Lawful Rights and Interests of Small and Medium Investors in Capital Market released by the Office of the State Council, and is also an act to protect the lawful rights and interests of small and medium investors, and boost the standardized operation of the listed companies, and enhance the exchange’s serving quality.   According to the relevant principal from SZSE, the revision of Implementation Rules and Business Guidance mainly included the following aspects: firstly, it was explicitly stipulated that online voting was required for all the general meeting of public companies; secondly, specific calculation rules of voting for general meeting was specified so as to enhance the transparency; thirdly, on-spot voting auxiliary system was added to enhance the efficiency of collecting and statistics of online voting data; fourthly, it was provided that the shareholder might use any account held by the shareholder to participate in online voting, in this way, it would be more convenient for shareholders to exercise the voting rights; fifthly, the voting scope was expanded to include preferred stock, fund and bonds; sixthly, voting operation of collective account was optimized; seventhly, the efficiency of identifying investors’ online identity was improved.   The principal also indicated that the optimization and upgrading of online voting system laid a solid foundation for comprehensive implementation of online voting for general meeting, consequently, it would be more convenient for the shareholders to participate in voting, and the efficiency of general meeting would be greatly improved. SZSE will further uphold the service-and-market-oriented principle, actively implement the regulation and spirit issued by the State Council and China Securities Regulatory Commission, further protect the lawful rights and interests of small and medium investors, and better facilitate the development of multi-tiered capital market.

The CPC Central Committee and the State Council Appoints New Chairman of the SZSE
date:2014-9-3
Mr. Wu Lijun, former Assistant Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), was appointed Secretary of the CPC SZSE Committee and nominated Board Chairman of the SZSE. Mr. Xiao Gang, Chairman of the CSRC, announced the appointment and nomination decision by the CPC Central Committee and the State Council at a general cadres’ meeting at the SZSE on September 1, 2014. Chairman Chen Dongzheng retired.   SZSE’s third Board of Directors convened its 43rd meeting and elected Mr. Wu Lijun as Board Chairman of the SZSE.   The leadership change indicated the great importance CPC Central Committee and the State Council have attached to China’s capital market and securities and futures regulatory system, said Xiao Gang in his speech.   He noted that as a platform for capital market resource allocation, stock exchanges should further broaden and deepen their service to the real economy. The SZSE should further expand the SME Board and accelerate reform in the ChiNext market.   Xiao Gang emphasized that as the reform of capital markets deepens, stock exchanges will take on more tasks. The SZSE should grasp the historical opportunity, shoulder heavy responsibilities, forge ahead, reform and innovate, prevent risks and take all its work to a new height. He hoped that the SZSE will make more contribution to economic and social development and the capital market’s growth and reform by improving internal management and strengthening market service.   In his speech, Wu Lijun said the SZSE is facing favorable opportunities for development. The SZSE should properly implement the Opinions for Further Promotion of the Capital Market Development by the State Council, consistently serve SMEs and strengthen listed companies, optimize and expand the SME Board and actively advance reforms in the ChiNext market. This is not only required by the CPC Central Committee and State Council, but also by future development of the exchange itself.   He noted that the stock exchange is at the center of public attention as it plays an important role in the operation, reform and development of the capital market and concerns the interests of investors. The SZSE should further heighten its sense of responsibility and plan its work in the backdrop of economic transition and supervisory transformation. It should proactively serve the national strategy of sustaining steady growth, adjusting economic structure, changing economic growth model, advancing reform, benefiting the people’s livelihood and actively serving the real economy. It should tap and give full play to its advantages, constantly broaden and deepen the scope of its service, innovate and diversify its service models and provide specialized professional services to SMEs, Internet and hi-tech firms and enterprises engaged in independent innovation.

Convertible Bond Serial Indices Launched Today
date:2014-8-27
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. recently announced to launch SZSE Convertible Bond Index (Code: 399307, Abbreviation: SZSE Convertible Bond) and CNI Convertible Bond Index (Code: 399413, Abbreviation: CNI Convertible Bond) on August 27, 2014. The indices are designed to depict the overall operation feature of the convertible bond market, and fuel the development and innovation of indexing investment.   Being as a hybrid security with debt- and equity-like features, a convertible bond holder may enjoy a return close to stock investment in a bull market and resist the crash when market collapses. Holding of a convertible bond not only keeps the long-term growth potential of stocks but also the security and income advantage of bonds, is a kind of investment which maximizes profit when risks are considered. In recent years, the convertible bond market witnesses steady growth with 31 convertible bonds listed on Shanghai and Shenzhen stock markets and valued about CNY 167 billion (as of the end of July, 2014). The convertible bond market has become an important component in the exchanges’ bond market.   SZSE Convertible Bond Index and CNI Convertible Bond Index take December 31, 2011 as the base date and 100 points as the base value. Exchange-listed convertible corporate bonds with book value balance no less than CNY 30 million compose the indices’ sample space, which is subject to monthly adjustment.   According to statistics since the base date till the end of July 2014, SZSE Convertible Bond Index and CNI Convertible Bond Index have achieved accumulative return rate of 37.13% and 10.06% respectively, in comparison to 0.19% of SZSE 100 Index and -4.25% of CSI 300 Index during the corresponding period.   More specific material on SZSE Convertible Bond Index and CNI Convertible Bond Index can be found on the website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and the website of CNI Index (www.cnindex.com.cn).

The 1st Record-Filling-after-Issuance Subordinated Bonds of Securities Companies Issued and Transferred on SZSE
date:2014-8-25
In the light of The Decision of the State Council on Cancellation and Decentralization of the Administrative Approval on a Batch of Projects (No.5 [2014] File Released by the State Council), and the announcement released by China Securities Regulatory Commission(CSRC) on February 21, 2014 (No.10 [2014] Announcement Released by CSRC), the administrative approval on the subordinated bonds of securities companies have been cancelled, which bring about more flexible and convenient subordinated bonds to loan to the securities companies. Against such backdrop, GF Securities issued the 1st tranche subordinated bonds of 6 billion Yuan on July 24, 2014. The bonds are categorized into two classes, of which, the 1st class is 4 (2+2) years in duration, 3 billion Yuan in scale, and with 5.7% coupon rate, while the 2nd class is 5(3+2) years in duration, 3 billion Yuan in scale, and with 5.9% coupon rate. In terms of coupon rate, 2014 Subordinated Bond of GF Securities Co., Ltd. have similar coupon rate as those of the public corporate bonds issued by securities companies of the same level over the same period, but have evident advantage over the subordinated bonds of the same level issued in the first quarter of the year. Being the first subordinated bonds of securities company that adopt record-filling-after-issuance system listed on SZSE, two classes of 2014 Subordinated Bonds of GF Securities Co., Ltd. (1st Tranche) started being transferred on Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) on August 22, 2014.   After the cancellation of administrative approval, securities company issuer of subordinated bonds may issue the bonds according to the market situation without acquiring the administrative approval from the CSRC in advance. The issuer may apply to the exchange for bonds’ codes, and enquire the coupon rate before issuance.  They should file the record to the local securities regulatory bureau after the issuance, and after undergoing the registration formalities in the securities registration & clearing companies, they may submit relevant documents to the exchange to apply for the transfer of the bonds. The cancellation of administrative approval enables the issuer to choose the best time for issuing bonds, consequently, the coupon rate enquiry becomes more flexible and the market operation efficiency is enhanced.  

Further Quotation Rate Acceleration and Charging Fee Slash in Shenzhen Market, Service and Market Efficiency Improved
date:2014-8-20
--Total Charging Fee Reduced by 180 Million Yuan, Quotation Rate Doubled   Recently, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and Shenzhen Securities Communication Co., Ltd. jointly announced to slash the communication charging standard in Shenzhen Market, and speed up the quotation rate. According relevant principal from SZSE, the quotation rate acceleration and communication fee slash were important measures of implementing relevant requirement put forward in the State Council’s ‘9 New Opinions’, as to improve the service to members, and facilitate better and faster development of the industry and market.   Securities communication fees in Shenzhen Market primarily include basic service fee, communication connection fee, quotation gateway software service fee, etc.. The communication fee slash and quotation rate acceleration involved three aspects: firstly, ‘basic service fee of business department’ and ‘fund multiple-seats quotation fee’ have been cancelled, meanwhile the charging method of ‘communication connection fee’ have been adjusted not to link with the number of the business branches; secondly, ‘quotation gateway software service fee’ have been ladder priced according to the users' number of gateways. In this way, the market body can autonomously choose the number of communication resource to suit their own needs, effectively allocating their communication resources; thirdly, the every unit of standard flow velocity accelerates from 25 quotations per second to 50 quotations per second. The rate of overall quotation in Shenzhen Market accelerates from 114 thousand quotations per second to 228 thousand per second without increasing the cost. The principal indicated that the measures would slash the communication cost of securities institutions, and further activate their vitality in expanding their business and innovation. As estimated according to the data in 2013, the overall communication fee of Shenzhen Market will drop by more than 60%, reducing 180 million Yuan per year. Nearly 100 members will be benefit from this measure, and more than half of these members will enjoy more than 50% drop in communication fee.   In order to lower the market trading cost, and facilitate the innovative development of the industry, Shenzhen Market have accelerated the quotation rate and reduced the cost three times successively in recent years: quotation rate increased from 15 quotations per second to 25 quotations per second in 2009; the data rate reduced from 0.15 Yuan per commission trading to 0.1 Yuan in 2010; the trading brokerage has been reduced from 0.122‰ of the trading amount to 0.087‰ as of June, 2012, and further reduced to 0.0696‰ on September, 2012.   The principal finally expressed that, SZSE would uphold the principle of primacy of service as always, actively implement the policy deploy made by the State Council and China Securities Regulatory Commission, improve the serving capacity as to adapt for the market change, and meet the market demand, and better facilitate the development of multi-tiered capital market.  

Building a Home for Investors by Listening, Communicating and Messaging
date:2014-8-18
----SZSE’s Open House Program for Investors   On August 14, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) organized an open house program for investors and the new building of SZSE for the first time welcomed over 30 representatives of the Home for Investors. The Home for Investors is an investor organization formed by SZSE with the aim of hearing opinions and suggestions of relevant investors before putting forward major regulations or rules that might have impact on their rights and interests, thus improving the pertinence, effectiveness and scientificity of innovation measures. Representative investors will be selected to join the Home for Investors by SZSE according to the development situation of the market and statistics of investors. The first session are formed by 60 representative investors of various types coming from 30 cities nationwide.   Representatives of the Home for Investors visited several exhibition halls in the activity. At the exhibition for “The Path of Hope”, they witnessed the entire history of SZSE from emerging, exploiting to growing. At the exhibition for “The Growth, Innovation, Backbone and Responsibilities of Listed Companies”, they got acquainted with the characteristics of listed companies in different industries or at different development stages, and their role in national economic development and economic transition. At the “Interactive Experience Center”, visitors showed great interest for the investor education games, and enthusiastically took part in the simulation investment game of Easy IK.   In the activity, the staff of SZSE introduced to representatives the SZSE “Service 365”, a platform for protecting rights and interests of small and medium investors. “3” represents the three theme activities for investor education, i.e. Listed Companies’ Open House Program, Securities Brokers’ Open House Program and Universities’ Open House Program. “6” represents the six-in-one investor service platform, which is consisted of Easy IR, Easy Calling, Easy Voting, Easy IK, Easy Analysis and Easy Opinion-collecting. “5” represents the five channels of spreading investor education information, i.e. traditional physical media, Internet, Mobile Internet, Weibo and WeChat. At the end of the activity, visitors were asked to fill the investor service satisfaction questionnaire, and they also put forward some valuable opinions and suggestions.   As an interactive communication platform, SZSE’s Open House Program for Investors shortens the distance between the Exchange and investors, according to the SZSE principal. On one hand investors could look into SZSE in person, on the other hand SZSE could take the chance to step close to investors, strengthen communication and exchanges, understand their demands and listen to the hearts of investors.   It is learned that SZSE is making every effort to perfect the normalization mechanism for investors opinion-collecting. Based on the existing Investors Service Hotline and Annual Retail Investor Survey, SZSE has set up a Home for Investors, built up a comprehensive investor database with timely update, and constructed the Voice of Investors - an Internet interactive platform for investors opinion-collecting via discussion forums, written and online questionnaire. SZSE will also adopt the complementary mechanism which combines passive collection and active solicitation, regular survey and continuous opinion-collecting, and online and offline opinion-collecting.

To Cater the Needs, Deepen the Service, Improve the Quality
date:2014-8-8
--SZSE Organized the 57th Training Session for Independent Director   The 57th training session for independent directors of public company has been organized by Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) in Ji’nan, Shandong from August 5th  to August 7th, 2014. More than 330 people from all walks of life nationwide attended the training session.   The training is oriented towards the incoming independent directors for public companies. In line with Opinions on Further Regulating the Issue of Party or Administrative Official’s Taking Part-time or Full-time Position in the Enterprises issued by the Organization Department of the Central Committee of the CPC, adjustment has been made to the scope of choice for the independent directors of public companies. The need for high-quality independent director personals becomes increasingly urgent along with the rapid development of capital market in China. During the recent Approaching Public Companies Activities, SZSE grasped this market’s urgent demand, and thus organized this training session in addition to the original training scheme. In order to make sure that the training became available to more people, SZSE made relevant arrangement on the training registration and venue upon the premise of high training quality. Consequently, more than 330 people attended the training, breaking the record of the number of attendance of the training.   After more than 10 year of implementation, independent director system has become an important segment of corporate governance mechanism of public company, and a significant dynamic for boosting the standard development of public companies. SZSE has long attached great importance to the training for independent directors, organizing 56 training sessions and training accumulatively 12500 people prior to this session. In order to enable the independent director to better perform their duty, this training session has made major adjustment to the training contents. Besides the original training contents on laws, regulations and finance, several professionals have been invited to give lectures in the training, to name some: Dr. Huang Haizhou from China International Capital Corporation Limited has been invited to give speech on current macro-economic situation; Director Zhao Changwen from Industry Economy Department of Development Research Center of the State Council introduced the reform on ownership system; Zhao Lixin, Deputy Director of Public Company Department of China Securities Regulatory Commission lectured on the evolution of corporate governance of public companies in China; Yi Huanhuan, Deputy Director of Research Institution of Hongyuan Securities Co., Ltd. introduced the industry reform upon the internet thinking; also Dr. Jiang Xueyue, Director of Corporate Governance Research Center of SZSE Comprehensive Research Institution has been invited to deliver the cases of corporate governance of private-owned enterprises in China. These speeches have been highly praised by the trainees. Many trainees expressed that, they have acquired profound understanding on the positioning and duty of independent directors, and not only better comprehended the regulations, but also broadened their horizon through the training, which was of great help for their duty performance in the future.   Relevant principals from SZSE indicated that SZSE would, based on the market needs, further reinforce the training for independent directors. The training scheme in the near future will be adjusted and released so as that relevant people could be prepared in advance. Meanwhile SZSE will continue to enhance the pertinence of the training services, reform and innovate on the course design as an effort to cater capital market’s demand for personnel training upon the new situation.

Speech by Song Liping, President and CEO of SZSE, at the Opening Ceremony of the Entrepreneurial TrainingSeminar of the Thousand Talents Program in Guangzhou
date:2014-7-18
Honorable guests and participants,   I am delighted to attend this training seminar today and communicate with the scientists and entrepreneurs working at the frontline of innovation.   The SZSE has paid great attention to the Thousand Talents Program since it was launched by the Organization Department of CPC Central Committee in 2008. We anticipated that this high-level talent introduction and training program would bring fresh vigor and impetus to China’s scientific and technological innovation, the development of China’s innovative businesses and the formation of an entrepreneurial and innovative culture in the society. On the other hand, the emergence of a great number of entrepreneurial and innovative businesses would be the source as well as an important basis of the sound development of the multi-tiered capital market.    We are glad to see the Thousand Talents Program has yielding rich fruits and our expectations come true. A group of listed companies have been equipped with scientific and technological achievement produced by the program, greatly enhancing their technological content and market competitiveness. There are also a group of high-quality professionals under the Thousand Talents Program who are not only at the forefront of scientific and technological innovation but also spearheading entrepreneurship. The businesses they started have been admitted into the capital market. According to preliminary statistics, Thousand Talents Program fellows can be found in three SME Board-listed companies and as many as 24 people, including 4 founders, of 19 ChiNext-listed companies have also been included in the program. These enterprises have distinctive features: high technological content, fast development and firm-specific corporate governance.   It’s more encouraging to witness a growing number of enterprises under the Thousand Talents Program are meeting the listing standards and preparing for floatation on the capital market, especially the ChiNext. With the listing of large numbers of enterprises under the program, the overall quality of the capital market, especially the ChiNext, will reach a new level.   Some participants attending the opening ceremony today are already familiar with the multi-tiered capital market of the SZSE while others may just start to know the multi-tiered capital market. Here, I would like to say a few words about SZSE.   The SZSE has always been committed to serving SMEs and supporting independent innovation. As early as 2000, the SZSE began preparations for a Nasdaq-style growth enterprise market in China. For a smooth transition, in May 2004, the SZSE launched a SME Board in its existing institutional framework with the focus on serving growth and innovative SMEs. Up to date, there are 721 SME Board-listed companies, including 519 hi-tech enterprises, accounting for 72% of all the SME Board-listed companies. In the wake of the overseas financial crisis in October 2009, the SZSE launched ChiNext market. From its inception, ChiNext has been positioned to support entrepreneurial and innovative enterprises and has tailor-made institutional designs for such enterprises. For example, the listing threshold was relatively low; an advisory committee composed of scientific and technological experts provides advices on offering and review; an investor suitability system is introduced to grant access only to those investors with a sense of risk and a high risk appetite; and a direct delisting system is implemented to maintain mobility of the market and promote the survival of the fittest. The English name of the board, ChiNext, or China Next, meaning the future of China, is an epitome of the expectations of all the parties concerned.   After four years of development, ChiNext has fully displayed its role in serving the innovation-driven national strategy and accomplished the preliminary goals of its establishment as follows:         Firstly, ChiNext-listed companies involve in highly technological businesses. By the end of the first half of this year, 86% of the 381 ChiNext-listed companies are accredited by the Ministry of Science and Technology as hi-tech enterprises, 66% are in strategic emerging industries, 36% have projects that are listed in China Torch Program, and 12% have projects that are listed in the National High-tech Research and Development Program (863 Program). As such, ChiNext has become the rendezvous of China’s innovative hi-tech enterprises.   Secondly, ChiNext-listed companies have large R&D expenditure and outstanding profitability performance. In 2013, they had an average R&D intensity of 5.75% and average sales gross margin of 34%, significantly higher than the average levels of all SZSE-listed companies.   Thirdly, ChiNext companies have achieved rapid growth and are active in M&As and restructuring. During the four years between 2009 and 2013, their revenue posted a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 27% and their net profits registered a CAGR of 14%. Moreover, ChiNext was the most active segment in terms of M&As and restructuring. By the end of the first half of this year, 141 ChiNext-listed companies launched 169 major M&A and restructuring deals, involving RMB 53.7 billion in value, of which 37 deals, involving RMB 20.9 billion, have been completed. In contrast to traditional industries, M&A and restructuring deals of ChiNext-listed companies had the following characteristics: focusing on introduction of talents and technology, taking the restructuring of scientific research institutes as an opportunity and leveraging on equity incentives and other means provided by the capital market.   Fourthly, ChiNext-listed companies promote wide coverage of equity incentives. By the end of the first half of this year, 165 companies, or 43.3% of ChiNext-listed companies have unveiled their incentive plans covering 23,060 key employees and granting a total of 1.047 billion stock options, which effectively aroused the enthusiasm of scientists, technicians and key employees.   Fifthly, ChiNext-listed companies have boosted investment by social capital, especially private capital, in emerging industries and technological enterprises. 243 companies, or 64% of all ChiNext-listed companies, had received venture capital totaling RMB 11.1 billion before IPO. After listing, venture capital investment appreciated 17 times, displaying a strong exemplary effect for the direction of social capital investment.   Dominated by innovative enterprises, ChiNext is well and widely received by investors. Currently, the price/earning ratio of the overall A-share market is roughly 13 times, while that of the SME Board and ChiNext Market is 34 times and nearly 60 times respectively. The ChiNext Index was launched in May 2010. From then on, the broad market has experienced a downturn, while the ChiNext Index jumped 45%. Particularly in 2013, the ChiNext Market soared nearly 90%. Among others, the structural rise of ChiNext Emerging Industry Index became the focus of the market.   After review of the past four years’ operation of ChiNext, this year, SZSE amended ChiNext IPO rules, unveiled ChiNext refinancing rules, further lowered the listing threshold and introduced a small-sum fast financing system. These changes made ChiNext in sharp contrast to the Main Board and more aligned to the development needs of scientific and technological enterprises. You may have noticed that we are set to establish a separate segment within ChiNext to provide special service for not-yet-profitable Internet and technological enterprises. Currently, relevant preparation work is underway. The launch of this segment will enhance ChiNext’s ability to serve technological enterprises.   At present, it is more important and urgent than ever before to implement the innovation-driven national strategy. Implementation of the innovation-driven national strategy depends ultimately on talented people. Since the 18th CPC National Congress, President Xi Jinping has given a series of important talks on talents which make us realize that our era needs innovation and innovation craves for talents. At the opening ceremony of the 17th Congress of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the 12th Congress of the Chinese Academy of Engineering in Beijing on 9 June, 2014, President Xi reiterated the importance of innovation and talents in a systematic and vivid way. As President Xi put it “Knowledge is power and talents are the future. If we want the country to play a leading role in scientific and technological innovation, we must discover talents in innovation practices, train talents in innovation activities and gather talents in innovative undertakings. We must make great efforts to build a big and well-structured talent pool of innovative high-quality scientific and technological personnel.”         Our society is in urgent need of interdisciplinary talents who are not only scientists with insights into the trend and course of technological development but also entrepreneurs with the capability to start and properly manage a business. During President Xi’s visit to Zhongguancun Science Park in Beijing last year, he said, “we must make further efforts to bridge science and economic and social development, as to bring market’s role into full play in creative resources allocation and let enterprises to play the leading role in technological innovation.” Technological entrepreneurs are the main undertakers at micro-level in implementing this requirement, as they have taken great risks, not only assuming responsibility for their shareholders and employees but also shouldering the future of our country. Over the past decade, the SZSE’s SME Board and ChiNext have listed more than 1,000 enterprises. From our conversations with hundreds of technological entrepreneurs, we have got a taste of the bitterness and toughness of entrepreneurship and innovation. All of the entrepreneurs share an ordeal of entrepreneurship. Many have been caught in a dilemma or struggled with frustration and despair. Even after the listing of their businesses, they fall short of capital, human resources and capital operational experience compared with industry giants. These entrepreneurs still need attention and support from all walks of life   The current and next few years are of crucial importance for China to become an innovation-induced country. China is experiencing comprehensively deepening reforms, with an innovation and entrepreneurship surge sweeping across the entire nation. Entrepreneurs are lucky to be in such an era and receive attention and support from all social sectors. The SZSE has initiated a special plan for the Thousand Talents Program. I’d like to take this opportunity to put forward three proposals on how to serve the Thousand Talents Program for your comments:   Firstly, institutional optimization with a focus on improving the ChiNext’s rule system. Over the past few years, a great number of Chinese innovative enterprises, especially all leading Internet businesses, have floated shares on overseas markets. One major reason is that the rules of our capital market have been outgrown by the needs of innovative enterprises. This is a serious lesson and we’ll never let mistake repeat itself. Under the leadership of China Securities Regulatory Commission, the SZSE will accelerate the reform of ChiNext to make its rule system more accommodating to the characteristics of innovative enterprises, so as to give full play to the role of the capital market in financing, standardizing, M&As, restructuring and equity incentives and allow the domestic capital market to serve domestic innovative enterprises better.    Secondly, strengthening training programs. In 2000 when SZSE was preparing the ChiNext market, we came to the Nasdaq to learn from its experience. A major suggestion that Nasdaq gave us was training of listing candidates. This is because the founders of tech SMEs mainly have technological backgrounds and are generally unfamiliar with the capital market. However, the capital market is of vital importance to the governance structure and long-term development of enterprises and also a highly complicated and professional market. Entrepreneurs can make good use of the capital market only after they have sufficient knowledge of the market. As a result, we set up a venture enterprise training center after our visit to the Nasdaq. To date, SZSE have trained tens of thousands of enterprises and executives. The training seminar opened today is the beginning of our cooperation with the Thousand Talents Program. We will try to make it more targeted and efficient.   Thirdly, deepening service. Despite more than ten years’ experience in serving innovative SMEs, SZSE still has a lot to do. Besides traditional training, we have noticed that start-up companies need services in many ways. For example, they have expressed a strong desire for communicating with each other. Based on this requirement, last year, SZSE set up the “Home for SMEs” for the purpose of integrating the resources of SZSE and even the entire society to create a comprehensive service platform for enterprises, and providing them with value-added services covering listing, training, information, research, exhibition and business promotion. It will also facilitate the interaction between enterprises and between market participants so as to help them expand and build their competence. We will continuously improve our service, and we welcome your opinions and advice.   Thank you.  

To Build ‘Home for Membership Business Departments’To Facilitate Industry transformation
date:2014-7-18
-- SZSE Held 1st Wealth Management Training Course for Business Departments of Securities Companies   Recently in Qingdao, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (‘SZSE’) organized an ‘Auditorium’ for ‘Home for Membership Business Departments’-- the first phase of wealth management training course for securities companies. In-depth discussions were taken place among backbone employees from 200 business departments of securities companies nationwide and domestic and overseas industrial experts. This training course was consisted of the following five modules: interpretation of policies and rules, wealth management, products configuration, investor appropriateness and risk management. According to the trainees, the training schedule was compact with down-to-earth content, therefore was beneficial for front-line employees to grasp wealth management knowledge and business skills and deepen their understanding on policies, rules, and product business in the capital market. For the next step, with Qingdao as the training base, SZSE will organize serial training courses themed with wealth management, aiming to cover all membership business departments.   As introduced by relevant principal of SZSE, building ‘Home for Membership Business Departments’ was an important move of SZSE to implement the State Council’s ‘9 New Opinions’, strengthen member services and fuel industry transformation. With direct access to the clients, over 6000 business departments from 115 securities companies nationwide, not only provide multi-tiered market products and services to clients, but also dig clients’ real needs and identify their risk tolerance. Along with the deepening of multi-tiered capital market development and the mass rise of wealth management market, the value and function of business departments should be re-recognized and re-positioned: firstly, they are crucial part of serving the real economy and satisfying the market demand of investing and financing; secondly, they are important foundation for developing modern investing bank, wealth management transformation development; thirdly, they are the front line of appropriateness management and investors protection. Currently, some securities companies have taken actions to restructure the organization structure of their business departments. Therefore, in hope of fully playing the market public interest platform, SZSE, capitalizing its own advantages, integrate the industry resources, strengthen the function of the branches of business department by means of ‘Home for Membership Business Departments’, facilitating the rapid transformation development of the industry.   By launching ‘Auditorium’, ‘Online Interactive Platform’ and ‘Innovation Exchange Center’, the ‘Home for Membership Business Departments’, organized by SZSE, provide more profound and extensive supportive services concerning personal training, material software, and products development for the industry. ‘Auditorium’, oriented towards the frontline backbone employees of the business department of securities companies, based on training professionals, aims at enhancing the business department’s capacity of serving the investors actively and accurately; ‘Online Interactive Platform’, by virtue of internet and mobile internet technology, provides various services including material software, video training, business consultation, and feedback through website and APP to the members and business department, and abort the voices from the frontline of the market;  ‘Innovation Exchange Center’, located on SZSE Square, targeted on the innovative service of the securities companies, provides demonstration, review, risk surveillance and risk prevention and control for the product and service innovation. Ever since the launch of ‘Home for Membership Business Departments’, SZSE have carry out demonstration and review for the innovative financing plan proposed by 4 securities companies via ‘Innovation Exchange Center’, which energetically support the innovative development of the industry.   The principal indicated that as the sustainable development of national economy and steady growth of income of citizens, our country will witness grand times for the development of wealth management. Explicit requirements on extension of securities industry and capital market, enhancement of function of wealth management, development of modern investing bank and improvement of capacity of serving the real economy etc., have been put forward in the ‘9 New Opinions’ and Opinions on Pushing forward the Innovative Development of Securities Institution. SZSE will actively implement the requirement made by the State Council and China Securities Regulatory Commission, and fully play the leading role of market organizer. By utilizing the resources advantage of basic product market and trading platform, SZSE will work on enriching the product line, prioritizing the trading mechanism, improving the trading platform, attracting the market participants so as to provide more support for the innovative development of wealth management of the industry, and improve the multi-tiered capital market’s capacity and standards of serving the real economy.    

Speech by Song Liping, President and CEO of SZSE, at the Jinjialing Fortune Forum 2014 in Qingdao
date:2014-7-8
At present, China is witnessing a booming and expanding wealth management market. The securities industry and capital market are called upon to extend and strengthen their role in wealth management services. Their participation and integration in the wealth management market is both necessary and inevitable. . The newly released nine-point guideline has made this clear and put forward relevant requirements. In the wealth management market, stock exchanges are not only an experienced practitioner, but also avid learners committed to  keeping pace with the times. Today, I would like to take this opportunity to share my views on this topic as follows:   Firstly, China, a major developing country, should adhere to the fundamental principle of finance serving the real economy. Wealth management co-exists with wealth creation. We should promote wealth creation and facilitate wealth formation by developing the wealth management market.   Wealth creation is the precondition for prosperous and sustainable development of the wealth management market. It is the wealth creation and accumulation over the past 30-plus years that elevated China, the most populous nation in the world, to the rank of middle income countries. Thus strong intrinsic demand was unleashed for demand for wealth management services. This, in turn, paved the way for the formation of the wealth management market. Therefore, everything came in its natural course.   China’s emergence as a middle-income country forms the basis and foundation for wealth management services. The development prospect of the market hinges on China’s economic transition and upgrading. So what shall we rely on to accomplish the economic transition and upgrading and create and accumulate more wealth in the future? The only answer is innovation, i.e. to implement an innovation-driven strategy and unleash the power of innovation to create new national wealth.   At the opening ceremony of the 17th Congress of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) and the 12th Congress of the Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE) in Beijing on June 9, 2014, Chinese President Xi Jinping once again made insightful, system and vivid elaboration on innovation, especially the significance of scientific and technological innovation. As President Xi put it, “as a nation is full of innovative spirit,we must strengthen our power in scientific and technological innovation more than ever before, we must get the new engine of innovation running full-throttle and ensure "the abundant flow of the creative fountain.”   It should be a main line , if not all contents, of our development of the wealth management market to amass the power of wealth for innovation so as to contribute to the full speed running of “the new engine of innovation”.   From the perspective of commercial interest of the wealth management industry, we should realize that the traditional competitive advantages underpinning past rapid growth and wealth creation have become difficult to shore up the new round of large-scale wealth creation. On the other hand, “trained human resources” and other various innovation-supporting resources are accumulating and are forming new competitive advantages. Meanwhile, the enthusiasm for innovation and entrepreneurship from all walks of life is rising to unprecedented heights. In a new era like this, innovation is in a position to become the main source of national wealth creation and a bonanza of national wealth. The challenge lies in how to turn the demands for financial service into wealth management products for investors, and to realize win-for-all in the course of wealth creation.   The key goal of our accelerated reform of ChiNext is to make it more innovative and grant market access to more innovative and wealth creating enterprises. Our surveys in the past few years also revealed that some scientific and technological achievements and force have yet been fully transformed into practical innovation capability for wealth creation. Therefore, the wealth management market has a brilliant future in providing a channel for commercializing scientific and technological achievements, tapping valuable intelligence wealth and effectively combining the innovation chain, the industry chain and the finance chain in the wealth management market.   Secondly, the wealth management market should be built on a solid and broad social basis by extending downward to reach a larger population.   According to conservative estimates from a few institutions, China has 1.05 million multimillionaires who are the high-end clients of the wealth management market. It is understandable to value high net worth individuals; however, paying too much attention to them is unadvisable.   If excellent wealth management services are mainly provided to high net worth individuals while ordinary people get lower-quality services, the already acute income gap will widen further to the disadvantage of social equality. The social ground for the development of the wealth management market will also become vulnerable.   Narrow market coverage also hampers the development of wealth management market. Whether business chances for wealth management services beside high net worth individuals exist? The answer is already here. In June 2013, Yu’ebao, a money market fund launched by Alipay, attracted more than 81 million users and raised nearly RMB 500 billion in just half a year. Despite divided opinions on the new product, Yu’ebao provides plenty of food for thought for the development of the wealth management market. We realized a populous, potentially huge and avid client base and a nationwide wealth management demand. Along with urbanization and the increase of residents’ income, this client base will become even larger.   The downward extension of wealth management market for wider coverage calls for investor protection and education. In addition, there must be professional solutions to questions as how to match products with suitable investors. For the capital market, investor suitability management and risk assessment and rating are the two basic systems that must be put in place quickly. This is particularly important for a market lacking a culture of wealth management.      Thirdly, as wealth management services are to a great extent driven by active service, brokerage outlets should play a good role in this regard.   Sales department of Securities business are hindered by their previous role as a simple “conduit”. Their products were standardized, clients were homogeneous and risk was judged by regulators. As a result, securities sales department failed to bring into full play their functions. Coupled with the impact of the Internet, the 115 securities companies and existing 6,000 securities sales department face shrinking development space. Our surveys found that quite a few industry insiders are pessimistic and perplexed about the future development. With the development of wealth management market and transformation of securities companies, the value of securities sales department must be re-discovered and some new functions must be developed.   First, securities sales department are an irreplaceable window in providing value-added service or getting to know investors. It is the securities sales department that face investors directly. They are the omnibus client terminal of securities companies and at the forefront of investor service and protection. The products and services of the multi-tiered capital market are finally presented to clients by them. Moreover, it is the securities sales department that develops and identifies investors’ needs and risk tolerance. Presently, some securities companies have begun reorganizing their securities sales department and reshaping the client management functions of with clients at the center. We believe that securities sales department will play an increasingly important role in the future development of the multi-tiered capital market, as well asa key fulcrum in the downward extension of the wealth management services.   Second, serving the regional economy and social development. Both internationalization and the development of a nationwide integrated market can provide opportunities and a broad platform for wealth management. However, we will never overlook the significance of regional wealth management markets. This is more necessary and practical given the fact that China is a country with huge market capacity and distinctive regional difference. We need high-end wealth management service, but we also need grassroots wealth management practice. How the securities sales department should penetrate into regional economy and social development and promote the regional development of wealth management market will be a new topic to be considered in the future.   As we found the significance of securities business outlets, the SZSE hopes to leverage on its role as a public market platform to build “the Home of Members” as part of its efforts to accelerate industry transformation and reinforce the role of securities sales departments as a fulcrum. It now proceeds with this work in the areas of talent training, promotional materials and software and product development.   Fourthly, the wealth management market grows up in the Internet age. The Internet has brought about profound changes to many industries. The wealth management industry and the development of wealth management market also need the way of thinking of the Internet age.   The Internet experiences speedy development and so does the wealth management market. It is very hard to foretell their development in the course of combination. That is why opinions differ widely on the issues of the Internet and finance.     Despite divided opinions, there is at least one consensus: the Internet and the big data technology provide a powerful technological tool for the finance industry to make innovative development and it has become possible to satisfy diversified wealth management demands of a huge client base at a low cost.   Previously, stock exchanges mainly applied the big data technology to market surveillance. Today, we are exploring ways to bolster the development of the wealth management market with this technology.   Fifthly, the development of the wealth management market is likely to reshape the industry chain and value chain of the finance industry and thus provides more chances and room for coordination and cooperation.   In the context of wealth management, we can see more things in common rather than difference between direct and indirect finance, between securities and banking industries and between insurance and trust industries. There are more room and opportunities for coordination and cooperation between different finance segments.   As early as 2007, the SZSE started thinking about how to create an integrated trading platform and set up a finance supermarket. Looking back, we obtained some results but the overall progress was meager.   With the advent of the era of big wealth management, we are confronted with a highly complicated wealth management market. The SZSE would like to explore with all parties to create a highly efficient on-floor trading platform for the wealth management market.

Activate Existing Assets, Facilitate the Region Development
date:2014-6-26
First Shandong Asset Securitization Products Listed on SZSE   Approved by China Securities Regulatory Commission recently, ‘Guotai 1st Tranche Special Asset Management Plan’ (hereinafter referred as Guotai 1st Tranche), launched by Qilu Securities Co., Ltd., will be transferred by listing on Shenzhen Stock Exchange Comprehensive Trading Platform on June 25, 2014.  With the creditor’s right of leasing contracts signed by Guotai Leasing Limited Company with the lessees as basic assets, the product falls into 4 prior classes and 1 subordinated class of asset-backed securities, raising CNY1.196 billion in total.   Financial leasing industry provides professional and standardized financial service for the real economy industries, playing a significant role in facilitating the development of industries such as engineering mechanism, transportation equipment and commercial circulation. The General Office of the State Council, and Ministry of Commerce have explicit pointed out in the documents of Opinions on Supporting Steady Growth of Foreign Trade (distributed by the General Office of the State Council (2014) No.19), and Guidance on Promoting the Development of Financial Leasing during the 12th Five-year Plan (distributed by Department of Trade in Services and Commercial Services, Ministry of Commerce (2011), No.487),  that financial leasing shall be promoted energetically, enterprises shall be encouraged to liquidize the leasing asset and create innovative financing mode by means of asset-back securitization.   In recent years, financial leasing developed rapidly in China. It was estimated by China Leasing Union that up till the end of May, the number of varies kinds of leasing companies reached 1250 in China, and the capital involved in financial leasing contract reached approximately CNY 2.6 trillion. The launch and listing of ‘Guotai 1st Tranche’ not only provides sustainable financing means for the originators, but also provides a successful practice for the securitization of the assets of the same kind, serving as a way to implement the relevant policy of the state.   Asset Securitization products are flexibly designed, cater the needs of both investing and financing parties, and have controllable risks, representing a key means of SZSE to improve the capacity of serving the real economy with financial services, enrich the market layers and investment products. As of now, 17 asset securitization products have been issued on Shenzhen Market, raising CNY 22.07 billion, and forming a complete project reserve echelon. Apart from the creditor’s right of financial leasing, the basic assets of asset securitization products include various types of assets involving security housing projects, small financing, loan to agricultural projects and poverty alleviation, sewage treatment, power, and expressway. Asset securitization products provide new financial means for supporting the key fields of real economy, for example, local infrastructure and security housing construction, serving small and micro enterprises and agriculture, farmer and rural area. Take the series products of Alibaba Small Loan Products listed on SZSE since July, 2013 for an example, CNY 3.5 billion have been raised for originator during less than one year, with 377 thousand small-and-micro enterprises and individual start-up being served, CNY 9.75 billion small loan being provided cyclically, realizing the original design intention of products of activating the real economy via financial lever.   In the future, centered on the document of Opinion of the State Council on Further Promoting the Sound Development of Capital Market, SZSE will continue to exploit the business mode and serving range of asset securitization financial instrument, liquidize remnant assets, and provide more effective financial support to the real economy.

SZSE Issued Implementation Rules on Preferred Share Pilot Business
date:2014-6-20
In order to standardize the listing, trading, transfer, information disclosure and other business of preferred shares during the pilot period, and for the purpose of protecting investors’ legal rights and interests, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) recently issued Implementation Rules on Preferred Share Pilot Business (hereinafter referred as Implementation Rules), which came into effect immediately upon its issuance. The Implementation Rules is compiled in the light of The Company Law of the People’s Republic of China, Securities Law of the People’s Republic of China, Guiding Opinions of the State Council on Carrying out the Pilot Program of Preferred Shares (hereinafter referred as Guiding Opinions), Administrative Measures on the Pilot Program of Preferred Shares (hereinafter referred as Administrative Measures), and relevant regulations.   The preferred share is a hybrid investment and financing instrument that fall in between stock and bonds. Its product design incorporates both the attributes of stocks and bonds. During the pilot period, preferred shares of SZSE shall be mainly issued by means of non-public offerings. Compared with public offerings, privately offered preferred shares are more flexible on issuance conditions, dividend rate and profit distribution, with emphasis on its stock attributes. Therefore, during the process of enacting the Implementation Rules, the SZSE will abide by the following principles:   First, supportive arrangement regarding the listing, trading, transfer and information disclosure of preferred shares shall be carried out on the basis of higher-level laws and regulations including the Company Law, Securities Law, Guiding Opinions and Administrative Measures.   Second, based on the definition of preferred shares being categorized as other type of stocks, and taking into consideration the features of multi-tiered capital market of SZSE, we shall manage preferred shares in the same way as common shares regarding share management and trading supervision, etc.   Third, to highlight the innovative feature of preferred shares, space is reserved for its systematical innovation. Only some regulations in principle are provided for the redemption and resale.   Implementation Rules consists of 6 chapters with 60 articles, containing General Provisions, Issuance and Listing, Trading and Transfer, Information Disclosure, Conversion and Resale, and Supplementary Provisions, with the main contents of each chapter as following:   1. General Provisions. The objectives and basis of enacting the Implementation Rules, and definition and applying scope of preferred share are provided herein. As preferred share is a new type of securities, in order to make sure that investors have certain knowledge and understanding on the features and risk of preferred shares, the Implementation Rules promulgates obligation for members to introduce the product and risk disclosure to investors.   2. Issuance and Listing. Those preferred shares, publicly offered and subscribed to with cash via online subscription through the trading system, are applicable to the Implementation Measures on Subscription for Online Public Offering Shares with Cash. The threshold for listing and trading of preferred shares are the same as those of common shares, convertible bonds and corporate bonds, i.e. actual raised fund shall be no less than RMB 50 million. A “special procedure” of the listing committee is applicable to the approval of application for listing.   3. Trading and Transfer. Public offering preferred shares can be traded via auction trading and block trading, while non-public offering preferred shares can be transferred via negotiated block trading platform. As it is difficult to distinguish the major events that affect the price of common shares and preferred shares, and it is possible that the two types of shares influence each other’s prices, it is provided in Implementation Rules that the trading suspension and resumption of preferred shares shall be kept the same as that of common shares. In avoidance of the risk of market speculation, every single buy order of auction trading shall be in round lots of 100 shares. Preferred shares are subject to 10% upper and lower price limits during the first and ensuing trading days. Verification standards for abnormal price variations are different from those of common shares; the auction trading of preferred shares will be included in the real-time quotation, but shall not be included in the calculation of index. And other matters of preferred shares shall be applicable to relevant regulations on Trading Rules of SZSE. The investor suitability standards for the transfer of preferred shares should remain the same as those for the issuance session. Number of shareholders of preferred shares privately offered under the same conditions shall not exceed 200 after the transfer. Members shall be responsible for investor suitability management. Transfers that involve more than 200 investors would not be recognized by SZSE.   4. Information Disclosure. For more convenient implementation, the Implementation Rules has set rules for regular disclosure of matters of preferred shares, including board meeting and shareholding meeting announcements, issuance, listing, periodic report, and interim report, etc. It is also provided the situations that require the consolidated calculation of common shares and preferred shares that have been resumed of voting rights. The announcement regarding resumption and termination of voting rights of preferred shares shall be disclosed in a timely manner; disclosure is required when certain investor’s holding of preferred shares reach 20% of the total preferred shares and upon each 10% increase or decrease afterwards. Matters regarding share repurchase, major restructuring should undergo the stipulated approval and disclosure procedures. Moreover, the Implementation Rules also specifies disclosure requirements on dividend distribution, redemption and resale.   5 Conversion and Repurchase. As it is provided the conversion and repurchase of preferred shares in the document jointly issued by China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC), Implementation Rules do not repeat such provisions, but give clear guidance on the above documents. Considering that preferred shares are an innovative type of securities, in order to reserve space for its systematical innovation, the Implementation Rules only set principles on redemption and resale, without making restrictive requirements on specific operations.   6. Supplementary Provisions. First, matters regarding the delisting of preferred shares are provided. As preferred shares are in the pilot stage, it is difficult to formulate a differentiated delisting system. Except for ownership distribution, stock accumulated trading volume, daily stock closing price, relevant matters shall be dealt with according to the Listing Rules and ChiNext Market Listing Rules until situation of preferred share is mature. Second, SZSE’s responsibility of taking supervision and punishment measures on rule violators is provided. Third, the shareholding calculation formula in the event of consolidated calculation of common shares and preferred shares that have been resumed of voting rights is provided. Fourth, the charging standard of the expenses of preferred share is provided.  Currently, under the guidance of CSRC, SZSE is pushing forward the pilot program of preferred shares in an active, steady, and sequential way. As a new type of securities, preferred shares raise many new issues and pose challenges to the trading system and supervision service. However, SZSE will continually improve relevant regulations and technology in practice, and promote the sound development of preferred shares.

Companies Listed on the ChiNext Board Utilize in Micro-and-quick Refinancing Mechanism
date:2014-6-19
After the implementation of Interim Management Measures on Securities Issuance of Companies Listed on the ChiNext Board (hereinafter referred as Management Measures) issued by China Securities Regulatory Commission, and the release of regulation on information disclosure of refinancing of the ChiNext Board, the companies listed on the ChiNext Board take immediate action in probing the utilization of refinancing to propel the companies’ development. On the night of June 17, 2014, Watertek Information (300324) and Lecron Energy Saving (300343) disclosed their preplan on non-public offering share. Before that, Jinfu New Material(300128) also put forward the proposal of ‘mandate to the board to apply for non-public offering, refinancing not more than 10% of the net asset of the end of last year’ on their annual general meeting.   Management Measures launched ‘micro, quick, flexible’ refinancing mechanism that suited the features of companies listed on the ChiNext Board, meeting the needs of these companies to refinance quickly and flexibly. Three abovementioned companies all adapted the micro-and-quick refinancing method put forward in the Management Measures, raising not more than 10% of their net asset and not more than CNY 50 million fund. These events reflect the pragmatic feature of the companies listed on the ChiNext Board. As the writer noticed, both Watertek Information and Lecron Energy Saving had specified their issuing targets in their board meeting, and refinanced by means of selling shares on their own to the top 10 largest shareholders, and the non-public offering shares had been solely and respectively subscribed by Huashang Fund Management Co., Ltd. and China Post Fund Management Co., Ltd., who were all among the top 10 largest shareholders of the two companies.   It is widely believed inside the circle, the utilization of ‘micro-and-quick refinancing’ mechanism of Management Measures by companies listed on the ChiNext Board is beneficial to lower the financing cost, speed up the financing efficiency, and further improve the quality of the company’s asset. The key supportive role of the ChiNext Board in facilitating the sustainable growth of innovative and technological companies is fully played.  

ChiNext 50 Index Issued
date:2014-6-19
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. recently announced to issue ChiNext 50 Index (Code: 399673, Abbreviation: ChiNext 50) on June 18, 2014. ChiNext 50 Index is designed to depict the operation feature of highly liquid stocks of the ChiNext Board, and further enrich index instrument of the ChiNext Market. ChiNext 50 Index takes May 31, 2010 as the base date and 1000 points as the base value.   ChiNext 50 Index is consisted of 50 stocks with the best liquidity selected from the 100 sample stocks of ChiNext Index during the observing period. ChiNext 50 Index put weights on the liquidity, market concentration rate and the efficiency of asset allocation of sample stocks, selecting companies with good reputation, large market capitalization, and high liquidity as sample stocks. Therefore it is a good instrument for investors to enjoy the growth of the ChiNext Board. On account of the rapid growing feature of the ChiNext market, the sample stocks of ChiNext 50 Index will be adjusted every season.   ChiNext 50 Index gathers a group of leading companies in the emerging industries listed on the ChiNext Board, to name some, Huayi Brothers in the field of media dissemination, Bluefocus in the brand management, Originwater in the environmental protection and Chase Sun Pharmaceutical in the health care. Up to the end of May, 2014, the average total market capitalization of sample stocks of ChiNext 50 Index has reached CNY10.6 billion with daily average turnover of index being about CNY 12 billion; the 2012 operating revenue and net profit of the sample stocks increase by 40% and 33% respectively the same period over last year, higher than the average level of the ChiNext Board market and A-share Market.   As data shows, from the base day to the end of May, 2014, accumulative earning of ChiNext 50 Index reached 27.85%, more than 40% exceeding that over the same period of A-share markets benchmark index CNINFO 1000, which is -12.18%. It is reported that, some institutions has already applied for developing fund products based on ChiNext 50 Index.   More specific material on ChiNext 50 Index can be found on the website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and the website of CNI Index （www.cnindex.com.cn）.  

Sample Adjustment of SZSE Component Index, SZSE SME Index and SZSE ChiNext Index
date:2014-6-16
On June 16, 2014, Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. jointly announced to make regular adjustment, in line with the indices compiling rules, to the sample stocks for SZSE series indices, which include SZSE Component Index, SZSE SME Index, SZSE ChiNext Index and SZSE 100 Index, etc. . Meanwhile, Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. announced to make regular adjustment to the sample stocks for CNI 100 Index and other cross-market indices. The adjustment will become effective as of the first trading day of July, 2014.   4 stocks will be adjusted to the sample stocks of SZSE Component Index, with Weifu High-tech, Anhui USTC Iflytek, Huayi Brothers and Leshi Internet to be swapped in as sample stocks, whereas XCMG, TLYS, Changyu and JZEG to be swapped out of sample stocks; 10 stocks will be adjusted to the sample stocks of SZSE SME Index, with TGE , Guangdong Media, etc. to be swapped in, whereas Guomai Technologies, Rongxin Power Electronic, etc. to be swapped out; 6 stocks will be adjusted to the sample stocks of SZSE ChiNext Index, with Jolly Pharmaceutical, Focused Photonics, etc. to be swapped in, whereas Hiconics Technology, Huaren Pharmaceutical, etc. to be swapped out; 9 stocks will be adjusted to the sample stocks of SZSE 100 Index, with DHC Software, Alpha Animation, etc. to be swapped in, whereas Zhongtian, Changyu to be swapped out. 9 stocks will be adjusted to the sample of CNI 100 Index, with TCL, BYD, etc. to be swapped in, whereas XSCE, Yang Quan Coal Industry, etc. to be swapped out.   After this regular sample stock adjustment, more well-performed companies listed on the ChiNext Board will be included in the core indices of Shenzhen Market. Following Originwater, Huayi Brothers and Leshi Internet will be included in SZSE Component Index, leading to the rise of weight of companies listed on the ChiNext Board in the index from 2% to 5%. The number of companies listed on the ChiNext Board included in SZSE 100 Index increases from 4 to 9, with their weight increasing from 4% to 8%.   From the perspective of sector distribution, the proportion of traditional industries such as manufacturing, mining, energy, raw material industries descends, whereas proportion of emerging industries such as information technology, telecommunications, film and television media, etc. ascends.   From the perspective of company growth, the performance of sample stocks of the core indices of Shenzhen Market proves to be more outstanding after the sample adjustment. The 2013 operating revenue of sample stocks of SZSE Component Index, SZSE SME Index, SZSE ChiNext Index increases by 15%, 19%, 37% respectively, and the net profit of them increase by 18%, 10% and 27% respectively.  

Power of Reform and Innovation: the New Economic Growth Point
date:2014-6-16
----Speech by Song Liping, President of the SZSE at the 16th China Venture Capital Forum The focal topic for today’s forum is searching new economic growth points. We have just carefully studied the speech by Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the CPC Central Committee at Academicians’ Conference on June 9, 2014. Our experience indicates that the new economic growth point lies in technological innovation, acceleration in transformation toward innovation-driven development model. This requires, on one hand, that we accelerate scientific and technological reform and improve the national innovation system. On the other hand, it is imperative for us to enhance the market’s power in resources allocation. In this regard, the capital market shall strengthen its capacity to meet the requirement to support scientific and technological innovation.   Venture capital and the multi-tiered capital market form an upper-lower-stream relationship. Venture capital may be described as extension of the capital market. According to statistics, the SME Board and the ChiNext Market, home to more than 1,000 listed companies, has seen introduction of pre-listing venture capital by over 500 listed companies. The venture capital firms’ ability to select, incubate and foster start-up companies, to a large extent, determines the efficiency of capital markets to serve technological innovation. Early-stage venture capital investment provides the critical boosting power for technological innovation projects, large-scale production and commercialization. Besides providing funds, venture capital firms also bring value-added services. For example, venture capital can help companies integrate external sales channels, marketing and human resources, turning technological advantage into competitive edge in a short time by speedy and practical commercialization. Thus venture capital helps start-up firms break through the Death Valley for early entrepreneurship. In addition, the early start-ups usually have neither the ability nor the incentives to standardize management practices. Thus the introduction of external venture capital, which requires more rigorous standards of compliance and corporate governance, often provide targeted assistance.  This compliance assistance is very important for enterprises’ ensuing development and growth, restructuring and share issuance.   Currently, authorities and professionals at all levels of the capital market are stepping up efforts to implement the new nine-article guideline to promote development in the capital market. For a first time, a national guideline dedicated a special provision as concrete plans for developing the private financing market. The Shenzhen Stock Exchange, in accordance with the deployment of the China Securities Regulatory Commission in its 11 Measures, focuses on accelerating development of the multi-tiered capital market and vigorously promotes market reform and innovation. I believe that such moves will create a favorable market environment to foster venture capital services. We will continue to strengthen the SME Board, accelerate reforms in the ChiNext Market and open up the ChiNext’s listing channel for Internet and hi-tech firms that have yet to make profits. Such reforms will be conducive to the smooth connection and transition between venture capital and the multi-tiered capital market, guiding venture capital firms to channel more investment into growth and innovative enterprises in emerging industries. We will further implement the Opinion of State Council on Further Optimization of Market Environment for Corporate Mergers and Acquisitions (Guo Fa No. 14). We will intensify services for mergers and acquisitions (M&A) in multiple aspects including regulation, innovation and services. Powered by both economic restructuring and policy support, mergers and acquisitions of listed companies have witnessed expansion in scale. Mergers and acquisitions are becoming a new channel for venture capital and capital markets to converge. In 2013, the Shenzhen-listed companies disclosed 324 cases of M&A involving 195.2 billion yuan (USD 31 billion), representing an increase of 68% over the previous year. In particular, the SME Board and ChiNext Market saw increases of 116% and 130% respectively. We will also actively support development of the OTC markets, amplifying exchange market’s leading and synergizing role. As our earlier practice indicates, the role of the OTC market in promoting development of enterprises’ credit information platforms is increasingly evident. In particular, regional equity markets centrally showcase a wider range of SMEs.  Such platforms not only help recognize equity ownership and restore the right of transfer, but also reduce the search and due diligence cost for venture capital firms, facilitating the transfer of projects backed by venture capital   With implementation of the nation’s innovation-driven development strategy, a new round of technological innovation boom is about to emerge. People from all walks of society pay increasing attention to the role of venture capital. The State Council recently decided to substantially increase the national Venture Fund of Funds and guide social capital to invest in venture capital funds. This is a means to take full advantage of the venture capital’s market operation model to improve efficiency of public funds and their guiding effect. We expect more financial, technological funds will be invested by means of venture capital, which will undoubtedly galvanize the venture capital industry.   Besides, reforms in administrative system of science and technology have given an increasing number of scientific and technological achievements access to the capital market, expanding the platform for venture capital. For example, we noticed that this year some local authorities took the lead in reforming the right to proceeds in disposing scientific and technological research achievements. By delegating the power of disposal to research units, they hit nail on the head in the reform. There are two prominent problems in commercialization of research results. First, most of the research institutions are public institutions, producing mostly research results from part of their duty. As a result, research units must report to the government for approval in capitalizing research results. Most people feel that it is generally difficult and time-consuming to apply for such approvals. Second, share incentives for researchers tend to be low and arbitrary in interest distribution in the process of capitalizing research results. This is not conducive to fully mobilize the enthusiasm of researchers. A lot of good research achievements lie unnoticed the laboratory for lack of integration with venture capital. Opportunities are lost for turning research results into actual entrepreneurial innovation.   Shenzhen concentrates many venture capital firms. At the end of 2013, Shenzhen had 8862 registered equity funds of different types with total registered capital worth 294.5 billion yuan (47 billion USD). Thanks to Shenzhen’s sound liberal market environment and active creative industries, over 110 enterprises in Shenzhen have listed shares with the SME Board and the ChiNext Market. Rapid development in venture capital has effectively promoted the upgrading of Shenzhen’s high-tech industry and local economic transformation. Recently, Shenzhen has been approved to develop the National Innovation Demonstrative Zone. The venture capital industry is expected usher in a broader space for development. The multi-tiered capital market is rooted in the fertile soil of Shenzhen. The Shenzhen Stock Exchange has made considerable progress in establishing the multi-tiered capital market. We have created a mechanism for positive interaction between the multi-tiered capital market and venture capital. As a next step, we will strive to improve the multi-tiered capital market with a sound structure and complete functions, thus boosting the venture-capital industry and jointly implementing the nation’s innovation-driven development strategy. In the process, we will promote enhancements of technological content and core competiveness in listed companies and candidate issuers, helping improve their ability to return to investors.

SZSE Holds 5th “Trading Rules Day”, Focusing on Two-way Opening-up of the Capital Market and Pushing Forward Optimization of Trading Systems
date:2014-6-10
On June 7, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) held the 5th annual seminar of “Trading Rules Day”, which was themed by “The Design and Optimization of Trading Systems in the Two-way Opening-up of the Capital Market”. Representatives were invited from China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”), Hong Kong Stock Exchange, Tokyo Stock Exchange, Morgan Stanley Capital International Inc., QFII, RQFII, securities brokers and fund companies.   In the wake of the growing trend of two-way opening-up of the capital market, the State Council recently promulgated “Opinions on Further Promoting the Healthy Development of the Capital Market” (the “9 New Opinions” for short), which gives a guideline for the further reform and sound growth of the capital market in the future. With the increasing volume of overseas products tracing A-share stocks, A-share stocks being included in FTSE Xinhua China A50 Index and possibly to be included in MSCI Emerging Markets Index or other international benchmark indices, overseas products and business innovation has seen growing vigor, plus the increasing involvement and influence of overseas institutional investors represented by QFII and RQFII. Such situations are making new demands on the existing trading systems design and trading supervision systems. To implement the State’s strategic deployment regarding “further opening-up of the capital market and innovation of trading mechanism” in the “9 New Opinions”, the seminar focused on the optimization of trading systems in the two-way opening-up of the capital market, learnt from experience of overseas mature markets and put heads together to discuss the optimization of closing price formation mechanism, with basis on the issue of price fluctuation in the late-day trading happened on the indices adjustment day last year.   According to the principal of SZSE, trading systems are the vital key for the Exchange to perform its functions of organization and management of securities trading. Trading systems shall meets investors’ needs and conform to national and international conditions. Adhering to CSRC’s strategic deployment, SZSE will carry out research on the optimization of late-day trading mechanism, further enhance the liquidity and transparency of late-day trading, reduce price fluctuation of closing price, constantly perfect the monitoring and controlling mechanism under new trading pattern, and push forward the two-way opening-up and sound development of the capital market.

Serve the Innovative Enterprises, Push Forward the Transformation and Upgrading of Sponsor Business
date:2014-6-10
The 14th Session of SZSE Sponsor Joint Conference Held in Tianjin   The 14th session of sponsor joint conference organized by Shenzhen Stock Exchange(SZSE) was held on June 5, 2014 in Tianjin. With the theme of ‘Serve the Innovative Enterprises, Push Forward the Transformation and Upgrading of Sponsor Business’, the conference probed into the subjects of carrying through the spirit of Several Opinion of the State Council on Further Facilitating Sound Development of Capital Market (hereinafter referred as New National Nine), speeding up the development of multi-layer capital market and transformation and upgrading of sponsor business under the new situation.   The representatives attended the meeting deemed that the New National Nine, which depicted the new blueprint of the reform and development of the capital market in China, pointed out the developmental direction, determined the developmental strategy, was the guideline document for comprehensive deepening of the capital market reform. Sponsors should intensify the awareness of opportunity and responsibility, seize the favorable opportunities, and push forward the transformation and upgrading of sponsor business:   Firstly, sponsors’ ability of serving small-and-medium size and innovative enterprises should be enhanced. It has been put forward in New National Nine that the Main Board and SME Board market should be expanded, while the reform on the ChiNext Market should be accelerated. The implementation of regulations such as Management Measure on IPO and Listing on the ChiNext Board, the Interim Management Measures on Issuance of Securities of Companies Listed on the ChiNext Board, has further reinforced capital market’s support on small-and-medium size and innovative enterprises. Sponsors need to enhance their ability of serving small-and-medium size and innovative enterprises, actively facilitate these enterprises to realize rapid development by virtue of capital market.   Secondly, the business of merger and acquisition should be boosted. It has been raised in New National Nine that market-oriented merger and acquisition should be encouraged, so that the main channel role of capital market can be fully played in the process of merger and acquisition. On the 3rd Plenary Session of 18th CPC Central Committee, it has been put forward that mixed-ownership economy should be developed, so as to create new opportunity for the sponsors to participate actively on reform on SOE mixed-ownership system. Sponsors need to be fully aware of the current macro background of deepening reform and transform of the economic development mode in our country, substantially dig out the social needs, against the backdrop of transformation and upgrading, vigorously participate in the reform on SOE mixed-ownership, exploit the merger and acquisition business, and facilitate the enterprises to become bigger and stronger by means of merger and acquisition.   Thirdly, innovation capacity need to be enhanced, and differentiated, special, and characteristics modern investment banks should be forged. It has been put forward in New National Nine that the innovative development of intermediary institutions should be facilitated. Under the new situation, sponsor institution should break the tradition of relying on IPO business, reinforce the innovative ability, expand the business scope, and innovative business mode, put their hand on diversifying the product line, intensifying the customer orientation, and returning to essence of the capital intermediary, and carry out differentiate, professional, and characteristics development. The conference was supported by Tianjin Securities Regulatory Bureau and Tianjin Financial Affair Office, sponsored by Bohai Securities, which was chairman on duty currently. Chen Dongzheng, President of the Council of SZSE, Cheng Zongsheng, Deputy General Secretary of Tianjin Municipal Government, and leaders from Issuance Supervision Department and Listed Company Supervision Department of China Securities Regulatory Commission, Tianjin Financial Affair Office, Tianjin Securities Regulatory Bureau attended and addressed the conference. The conference was hosted by Song Liping, General Manager of SZSE. More than 200 representatives from National Ministries and Commissions, municipal governments, sponsor institutions attended the conference.  

Speech by Song Liping, President and CEO of SZSE, at the Forum on Promoting the Integration of Technology and Finance and Leading Innovation-driven Development
date:2014-6-5
Chinese President Xi Jinping noted during his recent inspection in Shanghai that we must focus on the pivotal issue of technological innovation, employ scientific innovation as a preemptive tool, grasp the general trend of industrial revolution and drive industrial development with technological innovation. Today, after we visited the East Lake Hi-tech District of Wuhan, we have a more profound understanding of his speech and become more determined to create innovation chains centering on industry chains and improve finance chains with a focus on innovation chains. China has entered the new stage in which innovation is vital to its development. Promoting integration of technology and finance, supporting the development of strategic emerging industries and hi-tech industries and extending services to innovative growth SMEs are of great significance to spurring innovation and entrepreneurship, increasing employment opportunities, improving employment quality, boosting the rapid growth of innovative economy and facilitating industrial restructuring and upgrading.   Along with the fast growth of China’s multi-tiered capital market in recent years, its capability in serving technological and innovative businesses has continued to improve. As a result, a great number of leading enterprises in emerging industries posted good results with the support from the capital market, which further boosted our confidence to combine technology with capital. Take Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) as an example, there are altogether 1578 listed companies on the Main Board, SME Board and ChiNext, among which 1021 are state-level hi-tech enterprises and 532 are in strategic emerging industries. These listed companies are the representatives of the hi-tech industry. According to their 2013 annual reports, against the backdrop of the macroeconomic slowdown, these companies recorded fast revenue growth, high profitability and continued increase in fixed asset investment and R&D intensity. They also conducted M&As actively through the capital market and were highly recognized by investors. Last year, there was a structural rise in the index of ChiNext, a segment dominated by enterprises in strategic emerging industries and hi-tech industries.   This May, the State Council released the Several Opinions on Further Promoting the Sound Development of the Capital Market (“the new Nine-point Opinions”) which drew up a comprehensive plan and general arrangement from the overall perspective of China's economic and social development for the reform, opening-up, development and supervision of the capital market in the new era. In order to give full play to the functional advantages of the capital market in leading innovation and entrepreneurship, the new Nine-point Opinions required accelerating the development of the multi-tiered capital market, expanding the Main Board and SME Board, speeding up ChiNext reforms and enhancing the institutional arrangement for the development of innovative growth enterprises. The new Nine-point Opinions also required expediting the improvement of the National Equities Exchange and Quotations (NEEQ, the national OTC Market) and incorporating the regional equity markets in the multi-tiered capital market system. All these measures will facilitate the capital market’s effective link-up with the innovative enterprises that are in different growth stages and follow different growth patterns, thus giving its key support to the development of these enterprises.   Last week, as an important move to implement the new Nine-point Opinions, China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) released the revised ChiNext IPO and refinancing rules. Enterprises in strategic emerging industries are characterized by nonlinear growth, while the previous listing criteria are more for traditional industries with too much emphasis on the continuity and stability of track record. As a result, many innovative enterprises that are in the critical stage of their development tend to fail the regulator’s IPO review and lose financing opportunities due to temporary volatility in performance. On the contrary, once they reach the listing criteria, more often than not, they enter the “middle and later periods” of growth and do not have large capital expenditure. If they enter the capital market at this moment, there might be capital mismatch and idleness, and what’s more, it is hard for investors to share the fruit of rapid development of innovative enterprises. For this reason, the revised IPO rules eased the requirement on financial indicators, scrapped the requirement for sustained growth and streamlined other IPO criteria.   The launch of the ChiNext refinancing rules filled a gap that has been vacant for five years since the inception of ChiNext. It also created a small-sum fast financing system for innovative businesses that are in dire need of money. Since emerging industries change fast, enterprises have a high requirement on decision-making efficiency. Take M&A as an example, most M&A deals on ChiNext are horizontal integration or industry chain integration and are intended for absorption of talents and technology. They feature high frequency, small size and fast speed. For enterprises, business opportunities are transient. The establishment of the ChiNext small-sum fast financing system is a good attempt to align the capital market to the needs of innovative enterprise.     In the next step, we will explore how ChiNext reverts to its original purpose of serving technological and growth enterprises that are promising but not yet profitable.   We noticed that the new Nine-point Opinions formally decided to incorporate regional equity markets in the multi-tiered capital market system. This will have a far-reaching effect on promoting the combination of capital with technological start-ups and innovation. In August 2012, the CSRC released the Guiding Opinions on Regulating Securities Companies' Participation in Regional Equity Trading Markets, which ushered in a new period of systematically regulating and developing the regional markets. In the recent two years, following the State Council’s clean-up of various trading venues, some local governments began actively exploring ways to develop local equity trading centers so as to make up, in a bottom up approach, the weak links in the capital market’s service to local SMEs, especially technological SMEs. With the concerted efforts of various parties, regional equity trading centers have begun to play the following functions: Firstly, they provide a capital market service platform for local SMEs and offer SMEs the opportunities to access at the very beginning the valuable venture capital and entrepreneurship guidance from professional intermediaries and investment institutions. Secondly, they facilitate the construction of corporate credit information platform, break the bottleneck of “information island” in corporate credit, and lay the foundation for the improvement of regional financial ecologic environment, thereby attracting and bringing together various financial elements in the region. Thirdly, they serve as an open and transparent platform for the use of fiscal and technology supporting funds and facilitate public supervision of the use of fiscal funds. Fourthly, the platform can be used for ownership affirmation and restoration of assignment right, thus enabling equity-based financial services and commercialization of technological achievements, which will help integrate various forces and strengthen synergy. Fifthly, they provide plenty of M&A resources for the integration, transformation and upgrading of various industries and also serve as a withdrawal channel for venture capital. Take Wuhan Equity Exchange (WEE) for example, by the end of this April, nearly 200 enterprises were quoted and 400-odd enterprises completed equity trusteeship. These enterprises raised RMB 660 million in total proceeds through private placement and obtained RMB 7 billion in bank loans using the equity in trusteeship as collateral. As such, WEE made a new breakthrough in combining technology with finance.   It is because of such important value that SZSE actively participates in the development of regional equity markets like WEE. The incorporation of regional equity markets in the multi-tiered capital market system will, on the one hand, cement the market basis of stock exchanges by allowing potential listed companies to operate like joint stock companies even when they are still small through quotation on regional markets, and on the other hand, help magnify the exemplary role of stock exchanges as the effect of the latter’s optimization and accelerated development will quickly spread to regional markets, thereby enlarging the service scope of the multi-tiered capital market.   In conclusion, with the gradual implementation of the new Nine-point Opinions, the combination of technology with capital will reach a new level. As a pivot in the Yangtse River Economic Zone, Hubei province will play a more important role in the new round of economic transformation and upgrading. Wuhan East Lake Hi-tech District is a national independent innovation demonstration zone. With concentrated resources of technology, education and innovation, the district has displayed its key role in the restructuring and upgrading of local economy. In recent years, it continued to make breakthroughs in exploring in an all-round way the new mechanisms of combining technology with finance. Presently, 10 enterprises in the district are listed on SZSE’s SME Board and ChiNext Market. In the next step, with the continued expansion of the service scope of the multi-tiered capital market that comprises the Main Board, SME Board, ChiNext, OTC market and regional markets in Wuhan, we believe that the multi-tiered capital market will more closely and comprehensively link up with the East Lake Hi-tech District as well as the technological, innovative enterprises and emerging industries in Wuhan and will support and lead the province’s innovation-driven development and speed up the restructuring and upgrading of local economy.

SZSE Select Index Issued
date:2014-5-30
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. recently announced to issue SZSE Select Index (Code: 399013, Abbreviation: SZSE Select) on May 30, 2014. SZSE Select Index aims at reflecting the operation feature of the leading companies listed in Shenzhen Market, and further enriching SZSE index system. SZSE Select Index takes December 31, 2004 as the base date and 1000 points as the base value.   After two decades of development, Shenzhen Market has witnessed the emergence of a group of leading public companies of social responsibility and social influence. By virtue of the capital market, these companies grow swiftly, bringing affluent return to the investors. By incorporating these leading companies, which are being transparent, large, influential, as its sample stocks, SZSE Select Index set examples and benchmark for steering public companies to improving the quality of information disclosure, facilitate the standardized operation and sound development of public companies. At the same time, SZSE Select offers a new index instrument for investors to share economic development fruits.   By referencing to the transparency, market capitalization, liquidity, revenue and net profit, some of public companies listed on the Main Board, the SME Board are selected to compose the sample stocks for SZSE Select Index. The number of the sample is unfixed, and will be adjusted on the first trading of every July. Every IPO companies that meet the relevant criteria can be selected as the sample stock rapidly.   The current sample stocks for the Index include 307 companies, among which, 130 are listed on the Main Board, and 177 are listed on the SME Board. Most of these sample stocks are the leading companies of different sectors. Sample stocks cover 56 CSRC Sector Categories. The most heavily-weighted sectors are computer telecommunication equipment manufacturing industry, pharmaceutical industry, electric machinery and equipment manufacturing industry, with their weights being 11.3%, 8.9% and 8.4% respectively.   In 2013, the revenue of the 307 sample stock companies reaches CNY2.8641 trillion, accounting for 53.6% of the total revenue of the Main Board and the SME Board. Their net profit is CNY 226.1 billion, account for 75.1% of the total net profit of the companies listed on two boards. With the rate of return on common stockholders’ equity reaching 11.6%, the sample stock companies display strong profit capacity. As the latest data shows, stock sample companies, which account 26% of the total companies listed on the Main Board and the SME Board in terms of number, 57% in terms of total market capitalization, and 45% in terms of daily average turnover, are good representations of the market.  More specific material on SZSE Select Index can be found on the website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and the website of CNI Index （www.cnindex.com.cn）.

Speech by Song Liping, SZSE President & CEO, at the 4th Western China Hi-Tech Industry & Financial Capital Matchmaking Forum
date:2014-5-29
Dear colleagues and distinguished guests:   Good morning.   This is the fourth year that we hold the Western China Hi-Tech Industry & Financial Capital Matchmaking Forum. Over the past five years, the forum has not only yielded fruitful results in linking up investors with fund-seeking entrepreneurs, but also served as a platform to broaden mind, exchange ideas and deepen understanding. Just recently, listed companies completed their disclosure of 2013 annual reports and Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) has conducted a comprehensive analysis of the data contained in the reports. Here, I’d like to share my views on the theme of the forum with you from the following two aspects based on the performance results of listed companies.   Firstly, as industrial restructuring continues to deepen, China’s hi-tech industry has embarked on the track of fast development and yielded good results with the backing from the capital market, which further boosted our confidence to combine technology with capital.   Of all the 1578 listed companies on SZSE, 1021 are state-level hi-tech enterprises spanning almost all sectors of the hi-tech industry. According to a strict classification standard, 532 are in strategic emerging industries and are representatives of the hi-tech industry. Our analysis of the annual reports shows that these companies have the following distinctive trends:   First, rapid revenue growth and high profitability. In 2013, SZSE-listed companies recorded an average revenue growth of 11.7% year on year; listed companies in the hi-tech industry reported an average revenue growth of 15.3%. The 532 listed companies in strategic emerging industries registered an average sales gross margin of 24%, higher than the average level of 20% for all SZSE-listed companies.   Second, robust fixed asset investment from emerging industries. In 2012, the fixed asset investment of SZSE-listed companies dropped 6.6%. In 2013, their fixed asset investment recovered and rose at an average rate of 1. 7%. The fixed asset investment of the 532 companies in strategic emerging industries totaled RMB 142.5 billion, up by 13.3% year on year. In particular, the growth rate of fixed asset investment of computer, communications and other electronic equipment manufacturing industries was up to 35.3%.   Third, impressive innovation input and capability. In 2013, SZSE-listed companies invested a total of RMB 133.6 billion in R&D, with an average R&D intensity of over 4.6%. The 532 companies in strategic emerging industries had an average R&D intensity of 7.3%. With the growth of financial strength and management capability after listing, their scientific innovation potentials were inspired and some enterprises have become technological innovation centers driving the development of their industries.   Fourth, enhanced capability to expand through M&As. In 2013, SZSE-listed companies completed 324 M&A and restructuring deals, involving nearly RMB 200 billion, up by 68% over the previous year. The value of M&A and restructuring deals involving companies listed on the SME Board and ChiNext Market were up by 116% and 130% over the previous year respectively. These M&A and restructuring deals were dominantly driven by industrial upgrading and introduction of technology and talents.   Secondly, from the perspective of SZSE as a front-line self-regulatory organization, a few breakthroughs are being made that will accelerate the combination of technology with finance and should be the focus of our current efforts.     First, expediting the development of the multi-tiered capital market system to provide a multi-level market platform for the combination of technology with finance as well as a diversified carrier for financial products. In recent years, the multi-tiered capital market system has gradually taken shape. It linked up the enterprises at different growth stages and adopting different growth patterns with the capital market and played an increasingly significant role in supporting the hi-tech industry. On May 9 this year, the State Council released the Several Opinions on Further Promoting the Sound Development of the Capital Market (short as “the new Nine-point Opinions”) which required accelerating the development of the multi-tiered capital market, expanding the Main Board and SME Board, speeding up ChiNext reforms and enhancing the institutional arrangement for the development of innovative growth enterprises. The new Nine-point Opinions also required improving the National Equities Exchange and Quotations system (OTC Market) for SMEs and incorporating the regional equity markets in the multi-tiered capital market system. With the launch of these measures, there are bound to be new breakthroughs in the service scope and depth of the capital market to the hi-tech industry. For example, initiatives such as reforming the ChiNext, unveiling new ChiNext IPO and refinancing rules and developing tailor-made institutional system for innovative growth enterprises will bolster support for emerging industries. To hi-tech enterprises, it is especially important to incorporate the regional equity markets in the multi-tiered capital market system, extend services to the large number of hi-tech enterprises that are still in their infancy, and offer them valuable venture capital and entrepreneurship guidance at the very beginning by professional intermediaries and investment institutions. We have a deep understanding about this as we have participated in the establishment of Chengdu Equity Trading Center. The synergy effect of the multi-tiered capital market will allow regional equity markets to play an even greater role and reach more local tech and venture firms. Second, improving the institutional arrangement for capital contribution in the form of scientific and technological achievements and creating more basic conditions for enhancing the market-driven mechanism of combing technology with finance. The practice of capital contribution in the form of scientific and technological achievements will create an equity-based mechanism for affirming the ownership of scientific and technological achievements and assigning benefits as well as an industrial application-oriented mechanism for evaluating the quality of scientific and technological achievements. It will also help create a mechanism for allocating scientific and technological resources and transferring and applying scientific and technological achievements, with enterprises as the main body and the capital market as an important platform. This year’s government work report put forward a specific requirement to expand the pilot reform policies implemented in independent innovation demonstration zones, such as equity incentives and the right of disposition of and the right to the earnings of scientific and technological achievements, to more science parks and scientific and educational units. On March 26 this year, Premier Li Keqiang also suggested during his visit to Shenyang that enterprises should arouse the innovation vitality of the scientific and technological personnel by granting them equities. Experience from the ChiNext, which is dominated by hi-tech companies, tells us that granting equities to scientific and technological personnel has an apparent effect of enhancing corporate performance. In 2012, China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and the Ministry of Science and Technology jointly released the Guiding Opinions on Supporting Equity Contribution by Scientific Fruits and Identifying Equity (short as “Guiding Opinions”). Around the release of the Guiding Opinions, the CSRC and stock exchanges investigated enterprises, investment banks and hi-tech parks and identified quite a few obstacles in the way of using scientific and technological achievements as capital contributions. For example, this practice involves many links such as right affirmation, assessment and pricing as well as many departments, which calls for more operational implementing rules that covers all links and can coordinate different departments. Over the past few years, various departments have rolled out a slew of policies and rules aimed at regulating or encouraging this practice. But such policies and rules are scattered, less coordinated and sometimes conflicting. At present, we should quicken institutional reforms in this area to facilitate transformation of scientific and technological achievements and enhance the competitiveness of listed companies.   Third, actively exploring an equity structure that is suitable for tech enterprises. After listing or during corporate expansion following listing, with the increase of equity size, there exists a problem that key founders of enterprises might lose their control as a result of equity dilution. The recent Alibaba’s proposed listing has made this problem more prominent. During the development of the SME Board and ChiNext, we have contacted some R&D-driven enterprises that have strong technological innovation abilities. Their founders had begun pondering over the issue of control right as early as they considered whether to go public or not. Among enterprises already listed, some have realized rapid expansion through M&As in recent years and they still have a lot of M&A opportunities. However, if they continue to expand like that, the founders are likely to lose control of the enterprises. Of course, the dual-class structure might have negative effect on investor protection. But our institutional design can be more flexible to accommodate the characteristics of tech enterprises. For example, when revising the Company Law and Securities Law, we can consider leaving some space for the dual-class structure in light of the enterprises which are founded by technological personnel and whose growth is driven by innovation.   Fourth, paying attention to scale effect when building technological and financial service platforms. In recent years, many service platforms for tech enterprises have been established across the country, hoping to integrate the financial resources from all sources to provide one-stop service for enterprises. SZSE has participated in the construction of some of these platforms. We have a dedicated team that tracks the development of these platforms. Their study shows that the existing platforms are too scattered, which hinders the extension of service scope and the improvement of service quality. They hope that all parties make full use of new technologies such as the Internet to consciously strengthen integration of various platforms and information sharing so as to give play to the effect of resource agglomeration. This is their suggestion and I’d like to take this opportunity to share their suggestion with you for reference.     Finally, I wish this year’s forum a great success.

Quality of 2013 Information Disclosure of Companies Listed in SZSE Escalated as the ‘Express’ Advanced
date:2014-5-28
Recently, SZSE has completed the appraisal on 2013 information disclosure of companies listed on the Main Board, SME Board, and the ChiNext Board. According to the appraisal result, information disclosure quality of companies listed on Shenzhen Market is overall satisfactory, with companies graded with A or B take up around 90 percent on each boards. Particularly, the proportion of public companies graded with A increases from 15.81% last year to 19.27% this year.   As introduced by relevant principal from SZSE, the revised The Appraisal Measures on Information Disclosure of Listed Companies, released by SZSE on April 8, 2013, explicitly specified more than 40 objective grading indicators, and included into the appraisal scope the public companies’ reply to the investors’ enquiry on Easy IR, the disclosure on investor relationship activities, fulfillment of cash dividend commitment, etc.. The revision materially meets the requirements of acceleration of the supervision transformation, substantial protection to the rights and interests of investors, and further improvement of the transparency of information disclosure. In addition, SZSE have further expanded the scope for companies in ‘Information Disclosure Express’ and announcement categories. SZSE, which is undergoing supervision transformation, put forward more requirements on the information disclosure of public companies. The performance and results in ‘Public Companies Information Disclosure Express’ have also been taken into significant consideration in the annual appraisal on information disclosure.   As the results of appraisal by SZSE on information disclosure in resent years show, listed companies with Grade A appraisal results, such as PAB, Vanke-A, Gree , Zhejiang NHU, Suning Commerce, Hikvision, Bluefocus, Originwater, Inovance Technology, etc. which operated in a standardized way with high information disclosure quality, played exampling role in the market. However, there are also a few companies, such as Extra ST Century Plaza Hotel, Extra ST Zhongfu, Honglei, Extra ST CRTY, Wanfu Biotechnology, Hirisun, etc, appraised as Grade D for the reasons of violation of information disclosure regulation, illegal capital embezzlement by large shareholders, failure in disclosing the major events in timely manners, and major accounting errors, etc.. SZSE will supervise and urge these companies to improve their standardized operation, perform the obligation of information disclosure in good faith, so as to maintain the positive image of genuine and transparent public companies   For the next move, SZSE will further push forward ‘Information Disclosure Express’, strengthen the supervision on information disclosure of companies listed on SZSE during the event, and act upon issues spotted during the supervision in a timely manner, further enhance the quality and efficiency of information disclosure.   480 companies listed on the Main Board participated in the appraisal. Among them, PAB and other 68 companies were appraised as Grade A, taking up 14.38% of the total companies listed on the Main Board participated in the appraisal; Cau-Tech and other 333 companies were appraised as Grade B, taking up 69.58% of the total number; Zhongyin Cashmere and other 67 companies were appraised as Grade C, taking up 14.17% of the total number; Extra ST Good Hand Railway and other 8 companies were appraised as Grade D, taking up 1.87 % of the total number.   701 companies listed on the SME Board participated in the appraisal. Among them, Zhejiang NHU and other 146 companies were appraised as Grade A, taking up 20.97% of the total number; Hongda Xingye and other 479 companies were appraised as Grade B, taking up 68.47% of the total number; Elec-tech and other 67 companies were appraised as Grade C, taking up 9.70% of the total number; Extra ST Xiake and other 5 companies were appraised as Grade D, taking up 0.86% of the total number.  355 companies listed on the ChiNext Board participated in the appraisal. Among them, Hanwei Electronics and other 79 companies were appraised as Grade A, taking up 22.54% of the total number; Tgood and other 249 companies were appraised as Grade B, taking up 70.42% of the total number; Enjoyor and other 22 companies were appraised as Grade C, taking up 6.48% of the total number; Wanfu Biotechnology and Hirisun were appraised as Grade D, taking up 0.56% of the total number.

Ms. Song Liping, President and CEO of SZSE, met with the Rt Hon Dr. Vince Cable MP, British Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills on 26 May 2014.
date:2014-5-26


Mr. Lu Xiaoma, Executive Vice President of SZSE, spoke at the 2014 IOMA Conference in Moscow in May 2014.
date:2014-5-26


SZSE Launched the First Exchange Traded REITs
date:2014-5-22
Recently, ‘CITIC Qihang Special Asset Management Plan’(hereinafter referred as ‘CITIC Qihang’) issued by CITIC Securities has been approved by China Securities Regulatory Commission(CSRC) for establishment, and will be transferred by listing on Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) Comprehensive Trading Platform as of 21 May, 2014. As the first exchange traded real estate investment trust (REITs) launched in China, ‘CITIC Qihang’ represents a significant measure of implementing Researching and Establishing REITs System and Related Product Operation Model and Plan pushed forward in Opinion on Furthering the Innovative Development of Securities Institutions issued by CSRC.   In recent years, REITs of the overseas developed markets such as USA and Australia have become an important innovative financial instrument with strong developing momentum in the capital market in Asia, with Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong successively launching exchange traded standardized REITs. Essentially different from REITs issued by the domestic trust companies for investing in developing property, exchange traded REITs principally target on the investing and managing mature property assets, and strictly control the real estate development projects invested in to avoid becoming a financing instrument of real estate development.     It is of great significance to launch exchange traded REITs in the securities market at the present stage in China. Firstly, the variety of investment products in the securities market is enriched. REITs possess both investment features of fixed-income products and equity products, for REITs’ income stem from both rent and added value of mature property. Therefore, the launch of exchange traded REITs provides an investment product with new risk and income structure for the investors of securities market. Secondly, through participating in product design and operational management, securities companies and related intermediary organizations would be able to create a new profit mode, and enhance their core competitiveness. Thirdly, the pricing mechanism of REITs that based on stable dividend and core with rent in expectation will facilitate rationalization of real estate price, and consequently become the important market benchmark for the pricing of property and will thus guide investors to pay more attention on rent return of real estate investment.   The first exchange traded REITs--‘CITIC Qihang’ adopted some innovative mode in product structure design. Firstly, through multi-layer carriers with special target, such as special asset management plan issued by securities companies, private placement fund, and companies with special target, and through trading structure design, ‘CITIC Qihang’ guarantee to the maximum extent to transfer the rent and added value of the property as income for investors. Secondly, through separate layer arrangement of inner priority/ secondary products, diversified investing needs of various investors can be matched, with on the one hand priority investors mainly acquiring rent income, which is relatively more stable, on the other hand secondary investors mainly acquiring income from property added value. Both priority and secondary investors are limited to qualified institutional investors. Thirdly, ‘CITIC Qihang’ is transferred on SZSE Comprehensive Trading Platform by listing through the carrier of asset securitization special asset management plan in accordance with relevant rules on asset securitization.  SZSE have been embarked on research on REITs ever since 2003, and have cooperated with related market bodies in designing products, reserving projects since 2006, and have actively participated on the system design and project demonstration of REITs organized by CSRC. SZSE has made solid preparation for launching REITs products. Due to ‘CITIC Qihang’’s innovativeness in the trading structure, income distribution method, SZSE, while providing transfer service for REITs, intensifying measures on investors appropriateness continuous management, through setting varied trading threshold for primary/ secondary products, notifying the product risk differences by various channel, so that investors rights and interest can be protected. For the next step, on the basis of summarizing product operation experience, managing risk control and investor appropriateness management, SZSE will actively probe into REITs’ function of serving developing guarantee real estate and continually launch REITs oriented individual investors.

SZSE Implement Pricing Block Trading after Trading Hour
date:2014-5-22
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) officially implemented pricing block trading after trading hour as of 19 May, 2014, on which day, two securities were involved in block trading, with a trading volume of CNY 2.8885 million.   According the relevant principal from SZSE, in recent year, in order to adapt to the changes of investors’ needs and the market development, SZSE have researched and improved the block trading system in a continuous effort. After proven by substantial research, Trading Rules has been revised and issued in last July. This new version Trading Rules lowers the threshold for block trading, and increases optimized measures such as pricing the block trading after trading hour. Lowering the threshold for block trading has been implemented since last year, while pricing block trading after trading hour has recently been officially implemented after relevant technological preparation had been completed.   According to the source, the recently implemented pricing block trading after trading hour includes two types of pricing categories, i.e., closing price and weighted average price of the day, both of which, offer the market with more transparent pricing mechanism for the block trading. The measure not only caters market participants’ market need of diversified prices of block trading, but also is conducive to institutional investors to pursuing the trading strategy of minimizing deviation of tracking the index, thus improves the market trading efficiency.  SZSE will further carry out the united deploy of innovative trading mechanism raised in Several Opinion of the State Council on Further Facilitating Sound Development of Capital Market (referred as New National Nine). SZSE will positively accommodate to the market trend of diversified investors and trading needs, enrich the trading method of block trading, and continuously carry out the innovation on trading mechanism, so as to lay solid foundation for the development of multilayer capital market.

Speech by Song Liping, SZSE President & CEO, at the Tsinghua PBCSF Global Finance Forum
date:2014-5-19
The 18th National Congress of the CPC set out the requirement to accelerate the development of the multi-tiered capital market. Only yesterday, the State Council released the Several Opinions on Further Promoting the Sound Development of the Capital Market which defined the main task as creating a reasonably structured, fully functioning, transparent, highly efficient, open and inclusive multi-tiered capital market system by 2020. As China’s capital market has been built from top to bottom, there is still much work that has to be done to increase its servicing capability in order to meet the needs of China’s rapidly changing and evolving real economy. To accelerate the development of the multi-tiered capital market, what we need to do is to enrich market tiers and investment products through differentiated institutional arrangement and risk management, extend market services downward and strengthen its support to the real economy.   In recent years, the development of the multi-tiered capital market has accelerated and yielded certain results. One example is the reform of ChiNext rules. We will soon unveil new ChiNext IPO and refinancing rules, develop tailor-made institutional system for innovative growth enterprises and increase support for emerging industries. Moreover, we will make great efforts to develop the OTC market and give access to those SME groups which are in their infancy, unpopular with public investors due to their small size and uncertain future, but have growth potential.   As the second largest economy in the world, Chinese economy has entered the critical stage in which economic restructuring and transformation of growth mode are vital to its sustained development. The pressing and onerous economic transition shed light on weak links of finance in serving the real economy and put forward even higher requirement on the multi-tiered capital market. A case in point is the rural finance issue. Recently, the General Office of the State Council released the Several Opinions on Financially Serving the Development of "Agriculture, Rural Areas and Farmers". Among others, the document set a new task for the multi-tiered capital market by calling for the launch of pilot rural asset-backed securities to further satisfy the financial needs of leading agricultural industrialization enterprises. Another case is the green finance issue. Last August, the State Council issued the Opinions on Expediting the Development of Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Industry, emphasizing that China will regard the energy conservation and environmental protection industry as a pillar industry of national economy. A study shows that China will invest around RMB 2 trillion in the green industry each year in the next five years. A big challenge for the multi-tiered capital market is how to play its role in creating a green finance system that attracts social capital into the green industry. One more case is inclusive finance issue. China has more than 13 million registered SMEs and 34 million individual businesses. These huge number of small and micro enterprises, though closely related to employment and people’s livelihood, have little access to financial services. It is urgent to leverage on the synergy among various financial instruments, improve risk diversification, transfer and management mechanisms, and raise the service level and sustainability of the inclusive finance system. Last year, we made a good attempt by launching the pilot Alibaba small loan asset-backed securities. There's still plenty of room for the multi-tiered capital market to develop in this regard.   To address above tasks and challenges, we must couple the financing needs of the real economy to optional financial products through the development of the multi-tiered capital market. The sustained growth of Chinese economy has led to the rapid increase of residents’ income and social wealth. Since 2011, China's gross savings amount has exceeded RMB 20 trillion each year. There has been an exponential financial management needs as well as robust expansion of domestic financial management market. However, during this period, direct and indirect investment in the capital market limped along. This is not only due to the external reason of unbalanced development of China’s financial system, but also to the inherent reason of the capital market itself. Among others, an important reason is the overall incompetence of the capital market in tapping the needs of clients, developing innovative products and managing investor suitability.   The existing 110 securities companies and nearly 6000 securities business outlets are the main channel connecting investors and the multi-tiered capital market. Previously, they only served to a great extent as a “conduit” since products were standardized, clients were homogeneous and risk was assessed by regulators. In order to enhance its inclusiveness under the new situation of transforming regulatory philosophy and spurring innovation, the multi-tiered capital market should promote transformation of the industry from public offering to private placement and from standard products to non-standard products, which will align securities companies to clients’ needs, strengthen its ability of active service to clients, and properly allocate the risk and return of real economy among various types of investors. It is the securities business outlets that face investors directly. They are the omnibus client terminal of securities companies and at the forefront of investor service and protection. The products and services of the multi-tiered capital market are finally presented to clients by them. Moreover, it is the securities business outlets that develop and identify investors’ needs and risk appetite. Presently, some securities companies have begun reorganizing their securities business outlets and reshaping the client management functions of the outlets with clients at the center. We believe that securities business outlets will play an increasingly important role in the future development of the multi-tiered capital market.   In order to accelerate industry transformation and reinforce the role of securities business outlets as a fulcrum, we will utilize SZSE’s role as a public market platform to build “the Home of Member Outlets” and give support to members’ outlets in the following aspects:   Firstly, talent training. As the product line of the multi-tiered capital market is getting longer and longer and various new rules are becoming more and more complicated, client managers of securities business outlets must acquaint themselves with these products and policies in order to describe them to clients clearly and offer services to clients precisely. During the “Open House Program” activities, we felt that front-line employees of securities business outlets are hungry for high-quality information. We will make use of our advantages to organize the most excellent analysts in the industry to provide support to employee training of securities business outlets, describe products to them, interpret new policies and deliver product and policy information to investors precisely and continuously. For instance, we all know that M&A and restructuring is a major method of sharpening the competitive edge and profitability of listed companies. However, for a long time, there are many obstacles for cross-region, cross-sector and cross-property ownership M&As. The Opinions of the State Council on Further Optimizing the Environment for M&A and Restructuring of Enterprises proposed systemic measures to tackle this problem. The frontline backbone employee of the securities business outlets should understand the significance and impact of the policy on the capital market, which will help reinforce market confidence.   Secondly, promotional materials and software. The securities business outlets need to produce promotional materials and software to conduct investor education and product promotion. Self-development by each securities business outlet is costly and difficult. It is in this regard that we have a lot of work to do. Last year, we developed the platform of “Easy Investment Knowledge” (Easy IK) that is based on SZSE’s real historical trading data and incorporates many investment educational games such as “mock investment” and “psychological test”. Investors can apply different investment strategies to the stocks they had actually invested to assess the results vs. their actual performance repeatedly, thus helping investors understand themselves. Last year, we delivered the software to a few securities business outlets and conducted mock investment contests which were proved very popular. The enhanced “Easy IK” will be promoted to all the securities business outlets in the country within this year.   Thirdly, product development. Securities business outlets must have targeted product system in order to serve clients better. SZSE actively supports securities companies’ product innovation, business argumentation and appraisal as well as their development of products which are badly needed by clients, and help them with risk monitoring and prevention. For example, in 2011, in order to raise the investment efficiency of clients’ margin balance, we promoted the launch of Xianjinbao, a cash management product offered by securities companies. At present, 49 securities companies unveiled Xianjinbao funds which attracted RMB 44.8 billion in total from more than 1.3 million clients. Xianjinbao will be popularized after adjustment according to the new fund law. In 2012, we evaluated the feasibility of using clients’ transaction settlement fund accounts for consumer payment purposes and drafted the Technical Guidelines on the Payment System of Securities Companies. So far, 8 securities companies offer such service with 51000 contract clients      In conclusion, investor service is the precondition and basis of investor protection and the multi-tiered capital market should be investor-oriented. We must realize that there will be a long way to go before China’s investor structure transforms from retail investor-dominated to institutional investor-dominated, which poses a practical challenge to product innovation and institutional building.  

Mr. Jin Liyang, Chief Researcher of SZSE,met with Nordic institutional investor delegation on 12 May 2014.
date:2014-5-12


SZSE Releases the Empirical Analysis of 2013 Annual Reports of Listed Companies
date:2014-5-12
Recently, the Research Institute of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) released the Empirical Analysis of 2013 Annual Reports of Listed Companies on SZSE’s Multi-tiered Capital Market. According to the analysis report, the 1577 listed companies on SZSE realized total revenue of RMB 5667.461 billion in 2013, an increase of 11.71% on a year-on-year basis. Listed companies on the Main Board, SME Board and ChiNext realize 8.85%, 16.30% and 23.99% of increase on total revenue respectively. During the period from 2011 to 2013, companies on the Main Board, SME Board and ChiNext posted an average revenue growth rate of 36.17%, 53.04% and 56.97% respectively, or a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 10.84%, 15.24% and 16.22% respectively. In 2013, the net profits of SZSE-listed companies that were attributed to parent companies totaled RMB 323.665 billion, up by 17.34%; the number for the Main Board, SME Board and ChiNext were 26.65%, 5.18% and 10.48% respectively. At present, there are altogether 532 listed companies on SZSE that are in strategic emerging industries, accounting for 33.08% of all the SZSE-listed companies. These included 82 Main Board-listed companies, 221 SME Board-listed companies and 229 ChiNext-listed companies. In 2013, these 532 companies reported an average sales gross margin of 24.23%, higher than the average level of 20.21% for all SZSE-listed companies. The 532 companies completed total fixed asset investment of RMB 142.5 billion in 2013, an increase of 13.34% on a year-on-year basis and much higher than the average level of 1.67% for all SZSE-listed companies. Relevant data indicated that as a new economic growth engine, emerging industries show sound momentum of development and have a promising future. In 2013, total R&D expense of SZSE-listed companies stood at RMB 133.606 billion, or an average of RMB 85 million per company, which was 2.67% higher than 2012. In 2013, 21companies’ R&D expense exceeded RMB 1 billion, among which 10 companies’ R&D expense topped RMB 2 billion. R&D intensity (R&D expenditure as a percentage of revenue) of 397 listed companies exceeded 5%. These companies accounted for 25.15% of all the SZSE-listed companies, 0.91 percentage point higher than the previous year. 171 SME Board-listed companies and 194 ChiNext-listed companies had a R&D intensity of over 5%. Dominated by enterprises in strategic emerging industries, ChiNext led the three boards with an average R&D intensity of 7.76%. Excluding the financial industry, the average growth rate of fixed asset investment of SZSE-listed companies was 1.67% in 2013. Fixed asset investment of high energy-consuming, high emission and high resource-consuming industries continued to decline. Traditional pillar industries and infrastructure industry maintained steady growth. Emerging industries and hi-tech manufacturing industry maintained rapid growth. The growth rate of fixed asset investment of computer, communications and other electronic equipment manufacturing industries was up to 35.30% in 2013. In 2013, SZSE-listed companies launched 324 M&A and restructuring bids (including major asset restructuring, acquisition of assets through issuance of shares, and other form of M&A deals) valuing RMB 195.182 billion, up 68.24% over the pervious year. The value of M&A and restructuring deals involving companies listed on the Main Board, SME Board and ChiNext were up by 48.33%, 116.15% and 130.29% over the previous year respectively. In 2013, 1171 SZSE-listed companies announced their cash dividend plans, which were 16 companies more than the number in 2012. They accounted for 74.30% of all the SZSE-listed companies, 1.02 percentage points higher than the previous year. Dividend payout was RMB 93.348 billion, up 2.23% on a year-on-year basis. Employment maintained growth, pointing to the positive effect of equity incentives. The 1577 listed companies on SZSE had 6.0475 million employees on their payrolls, up by 5.34% on a year-on-year basis. The number of employees of listed companies on the Main Board, SME Board and ChiNext rose 1.53%, 8.43% and 12.69% respectively. The report showed that in the past year, SZSE Main Board operated smoothly. Blue chip companies continued to grow and have become the backbone propping up the stability of the market. The SME Board has given birth to a number of sizable and distinctive leading enterprises that have obvious driving effect and increasingly growing representation of their sectors. After four years since its inception, ChiNext has become an important platform on which innovative enterprises grow and become stronger. ChiNext has also served as a barometer of new economy. Listed companies on ChiNext are mainly in electronic information technology, environmental protection, new materials, new energy, high-end manufacturing industries, bio-pharmaceuticals, etc. The innovative feature of ChiNext became more prominent. The report also indicated that 5 primary industries and 10 secondary industries under the manufacturing industry posted negative profit growth. Performance of a few traditional industries continued to deteriorate due to the persistence of excess capacity. The overall performance of agriculture-related listed companies was not optimistic. In addition, SZSE’s penetration to western areas has yet to be improved. SZSE will continue to optimize and augment the multi-tiered capital market to serve China’s economic restructuring and transformation.

Supporting SMEs through Long-term Market-based Financing
date:2014-4-29
Speech by Song Liping, President & CEO of Shenzhen Stock Exchange at the IOSCO Growth and Emerging Market Committee Annual Meeting and Conference 2014   Thank you. It is an honor to be here. I would like to thank our hosts for their wonderful hospitality.   It is very important and timely to talk about the role of intermediaries in facilitating long-term financing through the capital market. In the wake of the 2008-2009 financial crisis, Western banks have been deleveraging to reduce risk exposure.  In fact, deleveraging is a global trend. In China, high debt ratio has increased corporate and bank risk. Some listed companies are reporting debt/asset ratios above 60%. Some companies in traditional sectors are seeing their debt/asset ratio exceed 80%. It therefore has become important and urgent for Chinese companies to deleverage. This process allows the capital market to play an irreplaceable role in channeling funds to the real economy and mitigating risk concentrated in banks.  As a result, market-based, long-term financing is as critical to sustainable economic development in China as it is in other economies.   The capital market offers a platform for fund-raising and risk management. The Shenzhen Stock Exchange attempts to facilitate long-term financing through its multi-tiered capital market. I will now briefly talk about the multi-tiered capital market’s role in supporting growth in the real economy through long-term, market-based financing, the development of financial intermediary services and success stories in product innovation.   First of all, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange’s multi-tiered capital market, consists of the main board, the SME Board and ChiNext Market, offers a capital platform for blue-chips, SMEs and innovative start-ups. With the launch of the SME Board and ChiNext Market, emerging Chinese companies have been given the opportunity to raise funds from the capital market for the first time.   About 15.4 million small or medium-sized enterprises are registered in China. They form the most dynamic sector of the Chinese economy and are responsible for 60% of the nation’s GDP, 70% of exports, 70% of patents for technological inventions and 80% of urban employment, which is increasingly vital to China’s economic health.   More than 7 million fresh graduates hit the job market every year and 10 million rural residents move to cities each year, making SMEs cornerstones for the nation’s economic growth and social well-being.   The SME Board was created in 2004, after China enacted the Law on SME Promotion. The ChiNext Market was launched in 2009, in response to the global financial crisis. So far, the SME Board and ChiNext Market have raised 157 billion USD for 1,098 SMEs or innovative start-ups.    Second, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange offers a financial supply chain for innovation. Thanks to the capital market, companies are able to capitalize new technologies, patents, trademarks and other intangible assets. The capital market’s pricing mechanism galvanizes venture capital investment. There currently are 6,000 venture capital firms in China, with 170 billion USD available for investment. More than 300 listed companies on the SZSE are backed by venture capital. The capital market completes the circle of innovation by linking industrial demands with investment funds. Certified hi-tech companies account for 93% and 74% of all issuers on the ChiNext Market and the SME Board, respectively.   Third, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange supports green industries. The SZSE gives priority to serving environmental, alternative energy and new materials companies. The exchange has published its “Social Responsibility Guidelines,” urging listed companies to dedicate resources and efforts to environmental protection. The exchange also compiles an “Environmental Index” to commend high-performing issuers. More than 50 issuers have been commended as green companies. The exchange also has established a special fund to restore deserts in Inner Mongolia. That project has attracted wide participation by financial institutions and corporations.   Fourth, the multi-tiered capital market supports the agricultural industry. Shenzhen Stock Exchange has signed a cooperative pact with Yangling Modern Agricultural Pilot Zone, China’s flagship hi-tech agricultural park in western China, to foster agricultural issuers. The exchange already has listed 53 issuers in agriculture, husbandry, fish farming, food processing and logistics. The capital market facilitates the transition of agricultural businesses into high value-added, modern enterprises.   Fifth, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange has expanded its reach to cover unlisted companies. Given China’s huge geographic expanse, we understand the limitations of the exchange platform and, as a result, have reached out to over-the-counter markets in different regions. We partner with local equity or asset transfer markets to build local capital platforms. With concentrated information, corporate equity and investors, these local capital platforms reduce market friction, enhance corporate visibility and facilitate trading. Furthermore, local capital platforms facilitate long-term financing for small and micro-sized firms, which contributes to economic growth and job creation in the region.   Sixth, Shenzhen Stock Exchange serves market intermediaries. As the Chinese capital market has a short history of just 24 years, intermediary services still have a lot to be desired. The exchange offers a suite of live and televised training programs and discussion seminars to enhance intermediaries’ professional knowledge and qualifications. The exchange also facilitates the sharing of knowledge among financial intermediaries.   Seventh, Shenzhen Stock Exchange helps intermediaries by offering M&A advisory services. For example, China’s pharmaceutical industry is heavily fragmented, with more than 6,000 firms competing against each other. Consolidation in the industry helps larger firms achieve economies of scale with heavy investment in R&D. Financial intermediary services can be very helpful in promoting M&A in the industry.   Eighth, Shenzhen Stock Exchange, as an SRO, supervises and incentivizes financial intermediaries that offer high standards of service. With proper oversight, intermediaries offer front-line supervision and guidance to listed companies and investors. The exchange often works with financial intermediaries to assess new products, services and supervisory rules to reduce transaction costs and facilitate capital market activities. The exchange also offers incentives for intermediaries to develop services in western China. The exchange offers subsidies for financial intermediaries to advise companies in western China, as well.   Ninth, intermediaries are essential for product innovation. Intermediaries, however, are inadequately equipped for product innovation in China due to the short history of the capital market. For example, during the process of ABS development, Shenzhen Stock Exchange offered free consulting and guidance for intermediaries to help them develop proper project planning, oversight, credit rating, distribution, liquidity and risk management. With that hands-on experience, intermediaries were up and running -- and so was the ABS market.   In summary, the exchange serves as a platform for interaction among issuers, investors and financial intermediaries. The exchange also works to maintain the fairness and integrity of the market. The financial intermediaries that connect investors and issuers play a central role in facilitating market-based, long-term investment.    

SZSE Issued Rules on Securities Trading of QFII and RQFII
date:2014-4-25
Today, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) issued Implementation Rules on Securities Trading of Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor and RMB Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor on Shenzhen Stock Exchange, (hereinafter referred as Rules on Securities Trading of QFII and RQFII). The rule covers qualified foreign institutional investors and RMB qualified foreign institutional investors (hereinafter referred as ‘qualified investors’) in the supervision range.   Comparing to Implementation Rules on Securities Trading of Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor on Shenzhen Stock Exchange issued in 2002, Rules on Securities Trading of QFII and RQFII mainly has amendments on the following content: firstly, investment range has been expanded, with qualified investors being able to invest in the stock, bond, fund, warrant, and asset-backed securities and other types of securities traded or transferred on SZSE; secondly, the number of  securities company to be committed has been increased, for instance, a single qualified investor might commit 3 securities companies in maximum to handle SZSE securities trading; thirdly, limitation on the percentage of shareholding in a company by foreign investors has been loosened, i.e. the maximum percentage of share held in an A-share public company by all the foreign investors will be loosened from 20% to 30%; fourthly, the disposal method of reducing shareholding more than proper proportion is explicitly defined. More than proper proportion shareholding reducing by qualified investors should be conducted sequentially according the category of the share held, and the Rules made a specific description on the category of shares held.   Relevant principal from SZSE indicated that the enacting and implementation of Rules on Securities Trading of QFII and RQFII was conducive to the participation of qualified investors in the trading on SZSE, facilitating the internationalization of the capital market and enlargement the institutional investors group. In order to facilitate the qualified investors to register, SZSE will also issue relevant guideline to the registration of relevant business as a supportive measure, the attention to which from related market participants is warmly welcomed. （SZSE）

SZSE Held the 4th Session of Public Company Open House Program for Foreign Investors
date:2014-4-17
The 4th session of Public Company Open House Program for foreign investors has been held in Hangzhou by Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) recently. Representatives from about 30 foreign institutional investors visited Hangzhou Century, SW-TECH, D.A. Diagnostics, Dali Technology, Beingmate, Songcheng Tourism, 6 companies listed on the SME Board or the ChiNext Board. Investors got to learn about the operation of the companies on-spot and exchange in-depth views on the strategic plan and the industries prospect with the senior managements of the companies. During the activity, representatives from SZSE presented to the foreign investors on the development of SZSE, investor relation management services, for example, ‘Easy IR’, and answered the questions the foreign investors interested in.   Relevant principal from SZSE indicated that Open House Program for Foreign Investors had been held by SZSE for 4 sessions up till now. The program has been an innovative measure of serving foreign investors, and supporting public companies to build up a long-term effective mechanism for managing foreign investor relation, against the backdrop of China’s capital market opening-up to the world. The previous 3 sessions of the program have been held in Shenzhen, Beijing, and Shanghai respectively with more than 100 participants, involving with visitations to 13 public companies. The programs have received wide attention and high recognition. Besides that, SZSE have carried out more than 90 sessions of ‘Listed Company Open House Program for Investors’ and ‘Learn about Your Shareholders’ that oriented toward domestic investors.   Foreign investor relation management is one of the prioritized agenda for SZSE. In recent years, SZSE have saved no efforts in improving information service for foreign investors, enriching the English website and establishing QFII special zone and mailbox for foreign investors, producing English weekly market report that deliver market state, and translating the companies’ financial indicators and announcements in a timely manner. SZSE will further carry out in-depth and in-width improvement on foreign investor relation management, providing diversified information service for foreign investors.

SZSE Dividend 50 and Dividend 100 Indices Issued
date:2014-4-10
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. recently announced to issue SZSE Dividend Weighted 50 Index (Code: 399672, Abbreviation: SZSE Dividend 50), CNI Dividend Weighted 100 Index (Code: 399411, Abbreviation: Dividend 100) on April 10, 2014. Both indices take December 31, 2008 as the base date and 1000 points as the base value.   Cash dividend of public company is a fundamental system of capital market, serving also as an important way to return the investors. Long-term and stable cash dividend reflects sound operation and profit capability of the public company. As historical data shows, public companies with high dividend are advantageous in valuation and are of long-term investment value. In overseas market, investment themed as high cash dividend is highly recognized by the market participants.   Those public companies listed in Shenzhen Market that implement cash dividend in 5 consecutive years are taken as sample space for SZSE Dividend Weighted 50 Index. Sifted by dividend rate indicator, and given consideration to the market value scale of listed companies, the top 50 stocks in the comprehensive ranking are selected to form the sample of SZSE Dividend 50. Likewise, those public companies listed in Shanghai and Shenzhen markets that implement cash dividend in 5 consecutive years are taken as sample space for CNI Dividend Weighted 100 Index. Sifted by dividend rate indicator, and given consideration to the market value scale of listed companies, the top 100 stocks in the comprehensive ranking are selected to form the sample of Dividend 100. Both SZSE Dividend Weighted 50 Index and CNI Dividend Weighted 100 Index are calculated weighted by cash dividend rate, and their samples will be adjusted on the first trading day in January each year.   According to data, from the base day to December 31, 2013, accumulative return of SZSE Dividend 50 and Dividend 100 indices are 67.19% and 60.42% respectively. Comparing with the accumulative return of Shanghai and Shenzhen markets benchmark index CNINFO 1000 over the same period, which is 55.36%, those of SZSE Dividend 50 and Dividend 100 exceed by 11.83%, 5.06%. According to the statistics of 2013 sample, the advantages of dividend weighted indices are prominent, with the dividend rate of SZSE Dividend 50 and Dividend 100 being 2.17% and 3.69% respectively, while those of Shenzhen Market and A-share Market being 1.08% and 2.31% respectively,.   More specific material on SZSE Dividend 50 and Dividend 100 indices can be found on the website of CNI Index （www.cnindex.com.cn）.

Mr. Chen Dongzheng, Chairman of SZSE, Answers Questions from Reporters at a Media Conference for the "Two Sessions"
date:2014-3-31
I assume it may not be necessary for me to brief you on the basic situation of the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. Without further ado, I’d like to share with you our views on issues of common interest.    21CBH: Chairman Chen, you mentioned the amendments to the ChiNext Market rules during a previous interview. We would like you to expound on what these changes are mainly about, and what are expected of them. And when do you anticipate they will become effective? Chairman Chen Dongzheng: It seems that the ChiNext Market is still the focus of interest. There has been extensive discussion about specificity of possible amendments to the ChiNext rules. This is, in fact, no longer a secret. From SZSE’s perspective, first its scope should be expanded and the threshold lowered.  Thus the ChiNext Market may be able to attract more high-tech enterprises with real growth conditions and good growth potential. Why do we need to further expand its scope? At its initial stage, some thought, it might be a little too much to establish such a volume of standards for the ChiNext Market, as it only covered six industries. As a matter of fact, it is a necessary course of development. Why? It took the ChiNext Market a decade of hard work to become what it is today. And at the beginning, there was heated debate about whether it should even be launched. So it is inevitable that it must undergo a process of development and gradual perfection. As to what changes were made specifically, no consistent common understanding hasn't been formed. We must understand that difficulties with capital market reform lie in reaching a significant degree of consensus. Without a consensus, there is no way to accomplish anything. A consensus requires cohesion. And building cohesion requires a process. Again, for the specific timing and the specifics of rules, we don’t need to aim for perfection. The best plans may not always be feasible in reality. Things always move from imperfection to perfection. The development of the capital market is also, a gradual process one of consensus building.   China Securities Journal: Chairman Chen, how can we make an effort to deepen the construction of the multi-tiered capital market? Are there any new directions as to what kind of services will be provided for small and medium-sized enterprises? Will there be some new products available? Thank you. Chairman Chen Dongzheng: For small and medium-sized enterprises, private placement bonds are a very important channel to finance their growth. As is a direct means of fund-raising, IPO has stringent requirements. Only a limited number of companies have been admitted for IPOs. Now private placement bonds have been offered to small and medium-sized enterprises. The bonds are listed and transferred on the stock exchange. Transsolar may be on everybody’s mind. Transsolar has trouble meeting its debt obligations. How do we view the defaults? I have learned a lot and have received some extremely useful insights from several of my friends in economic and financial circles. Most of them said that this specific event is the first of its kind, but it broke the implicit guarantee for bond instruments. It's a part of the progress in the development of the bond market. From the perspective of the SZSE, I believe the greatest concern should be how to properly handle the debt risk of Transsolar. Though the debt market is moving forward on broad road, we will inevitably encounter problems of one kind or another. In appropriately handling of the case may negatively affect the path direction for the debt market and exacerbate SMEs from the perspective of overall economic and social development.     This should remind the market, especially the vast number of investors, of risks in any financial product. How can we prevent and dissolve the risks? This is what the regulators and the SZSE are exploring. In this process, a certain price must be paid. But are we able to ensure that it will be within an affordable range, and to avoid repeating it? I think, in this process, the exchange should also maintain an attitude of being completely responsible. If any risk occurs due to less than fulfillment of duty by the exchange, it should also take the corresponding responsibilities like any other market entity.     Xinhua: You have made a proposal to make it a national strategy to vigorously develop small and medium-sized enterprises. Can you tell us more about this in the context of the SME Board and the ChiNext Market of the SZSE. As mentioned by the Chairman of the SSE yesterday, the emerging strategic industries board may overlap with the ChiNext Market. What are your thoughts about this? Here is my second question. The country is now vigorously developing mixed ownership. What opportunities will this bring to the capital market? Chairman Chen Dongzheng: Two great questions indeed!     First, I would like to talk about the strategic emerging industries board of the SSE that Chairman Gui Minjie introduced to you yesterday. The construction of China's multi-level capital market is being carried out under the leadership of the Central Committee of the CPC, the state council and the China securities regulatory commission (CSRC), involving participation from all walks of society. The SZSE and SSE are of course two important participants. And more and more parties will get involved in the development of the equity market including the New Third Board, and the Fourth Board markets. So let’s review history. The SZSE received much support from the SSE in the process of building the SME Board and the ChiNext Market.     During the preparatory process of the SME Board and the ChiNext Market, the SSE and the whole of society have put in a lot of effort. Now the SSE is proposing a strategic emerging industries board. As to what this board will be like, perhaps we need to have a consensus. You still remember the ten years of review and study, don't you? I think it may take less than 10 years now given that we have better conditions available nowadays. But we must give it careful deliberation. Personally, I want to give my support and approval to it because the market develops through innovation. The SSE may now be under some pressure, most notably in terms of trading volume since last year. As a matter of fact, there has been a recent shift in attitude. GDP is not the only measure from a larger perspective. There may be certain inevitability in the ups and downs in trading volume. But there may also be incidental elements. How can we solidly improve the blue-chip market? You may have your own unique views on this. I appreciate this kind of explorative spirit. But we must have a clear understanding of our priorities in our exploration and consensus building with reconciliation of China’s reality and current stage of development. First, we should have whole-picture view. We mustn’t just look at part of the picture from partial standing point; we must see the overall situation. Second we must take a long-term view rather than being short-sighted. In terms of trading volume, the SZSE was only 1/10 of SSE's in the past. If we judge the two exchanges only by trading volume, we may lose sight of the real situation. Moreover, SZSE’s mainboard index recorded the same performance as that of the SSE. The ChiNext Market demonstrated the most salient rise, followed by the SME Board. This involves a lot of inevitability. We cannot conclude that the higher the index, the better the market performance. Index spikes also involve concern of hidden risk.     Therefore, in order to solidly improve the multi-tiered market in China to serve SMEs, we must not only look at the present, nor too concerned with gains or losses in short periods. We must ensure sustainable long-term development. This is my personal opinion and I am willing to be supportive, especially for such pioneering work. However, that will be a gradual process, and we must take it easy.     The second question relates to mixed ownership. Personally, I believe this is a matter of critical concern. In this respect, I feel that the securities media has not paid enough attention to mixed ownership.     I noticed that mixed ownership is the most talked-about subject during this year's NPC and CPPCC sessions. As far as I know, both Chairman Gui Minjie and former MIIT Minister Li Yizhong have talked about it during the NPC and CPPCC sessions. Li Yizhong is also a CPPCC member now. On March 4, when Prime Minister Li Keqiang was hearing a report made at the economic and agricultural groups, Li Yizhong was the first to speak, and he talked about the issue of mixed ownership. I was then sitting beside Chairman Gui Minjie.     When Communique of the 3rd Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee was up for public comment, I was convinced that it would be a boon for China's capital market to establish mixed ownership as a basic economic system. Why is that? Think about it. Mixed ownership will be diversified in form in the future. The most feasible and reliable mean of realization is via the capital market. Despite the various problems faced by the capital market, it is a relatively open and transparent market. In this market, both the state assets and the private assets are taken into consideration, and the probability of problem occurrence is relatively low. During the approximately 20 years of operation of the market, we have paid a dear price. But a very effective exploration in mixed ownership has been carried out, paving the way for mixed ownership to become a basic economic institution for the Chinese economy. I hope that we can blaze a path of success with concerted effort and continued attention.     CNR: As I heard yesterday, Chairman Gui Minjie noted that the T + 0 mechanism was already mature. I’d like to hear your opinion on that. Two years ago, you told reporters that the T + 0 did more harm than good to small and medium-sized investors. Do you still think so? Chairman Chen Dongzheng: I did say that two years ago, and I still hold that idea. However, I'm not against the implementation of T + 0 in blue chips. I am actually supportive of it as an attempt to revitalize blue-chip stocks. We’ve always highlighted the importance of protecting small and medium-sized investors, as they are a more vulnerable group compared with institutional investors, in terms of research capacity or many other aspects. As for T+0, I am also aware that many small and medium-sized investors are in favor of this proposal. I will simply make my point. But should we adopt the T + 0 mechanism, are there any necessary supporting arrangements available? I’ll give you an example. We have been playing basketball according to local rules. Suppose that we suddenly switched to the NBA rules. What would happen? Though Chinese basketball might learn and improve, we would imminently have no choice but to lose. The rules must be formulated in accordance with the maturity of the market. The SSE believes it is appropriate to carry out pilot projects, especially in the big blue chips. I agree.       CCTV Finance Channel: Since last year, Main Board and the ChiNext market have diverged sharply in performance. The ChiNext index has been rising very high, and as you said, there was certain concern about it. I am not sure what the concern really is. After listing on the ChiNext Market, many companies have changed. What do you think? Thank you.    Chairman Chen Dongzheng: You have already made it clear what the concerns are for to me. I hope that all of us may look at the ChiNext Market with a calm mind. The P/E ratio of the ChiNext Market is the highest in the world, and there is a huge gap between the ChiNext Market and the SME Board. Our market does not need this volcanic style of development. We need gradual, continuous and stable development. However, the market has its own way. So I hope that we can develop a path of stable and sustainable development by drawing lessons from past experiences after the IPO reform, especially of ChiNext market. The ChiNext market may have seen a sharp rise in a short horizon. But it has both ups and downs. The crux of the issue is whether the ChiNext market can sustain future development with corporate performance of its issuers. The future of the ChiNext must never be ruined by a minority of poor-performing companies. The market should provide rational pricing with room for rational expectation. Our market is in an “emerging plus transitioning” period. Market capitalization held by institutional investors account for roughly 40% of the ChiNext. Institutional investors are assumed to be more rational than individual investors. But in reality, they are not. And sometimes they appear to be speculating as much as retail investors. This reflects the market in the process of becoming mature. A child has to stumble a lot along the way and even leave scars to become an adult. In the same way, we can only hope that our child can endure less pain and grow up in a better environment.       China Business News: It was formerly proposed that a mechanism be established between the New Third Board and the ChiNext Market or the SME Board, and this trend of linking various markets is increasingly evident nowadays. I would like your opinions on how the linkage between different boards is going to work. Another question is about the pre-requirement of holding SZSE shares for subscription to new stocks. What's your take on this? Thank you.     Chairman Chen Dongzheng: Interconnection between markets is no doubt a trend. The subscription of market value is a technical issue, as technically we haven't established a full linkage between any two markets. And efforts are being made in this regard, such as in registration and settlement. I believe that a complete linkage between markets is an inevitable trend in the future. But no timetable could be unveiled at the moment.       Economic Daily and China Economic Net: The government work report has put forward the concept of building a multi-tiered capital market and accelerating the reform of registration-based IPO system. Some people hold the opinion that the examination and approval of IPOs should be left to stock exchanges. What’s your attitude towards such a proposal? In addition, how can we carry out the reform of the registration-based IPO system, should the same reform be promoted in the New Third Board (National OTC Market) or in other fields, and what are the bottlenecks and problems to be faced in the process?     Chairman Chen Dongzheng: No matter what form the registration-based IPO system will take in the future, the exchange will certainly bear increasingly greater responsibilities. Throughout the development of the capital market over the past 20 years, the positions, responsibilities and burdens for stock exchanges have witnessed gradual changes towards maturity. But with the reform of the registration-based IPO system, the exchange will definitely experience a significant change in its responsibilities. Will the SZSE be able to meet this change? This is one of the concerns requiring our attention. Where should the examination and approval be located? I am firmly against putting the authority of examination and approval in the stock exchanges because they are not able to carry out the duty.     Then where exactly should the registration-based IPO system be placed in the future? I am confident that with the advance of registration system reforms, the answer will become clearer. It is natural that people had diverse views on the market. And I hope that we can reach a basic consensus. In this way, it will become much easier. So it is possible to carry out the examination anywhere. But if the exchange were to put in charge, the exchange would face huge challenges and great pressure.       Chinese Securities Journal: You have just mentioned that there are issues that require our attention and great concern. As for the ChiNext Market, what kind measures will the SZSE take in the future? Chairman Chen Dongzheng: To solve existing problems with the ChiNext Market, we need concerted efforts from all market participants, and we need wisdom from stock exchanges, the CSRC, and the entire society. The problem of the market must surely be resolved by the market itself, with methods suitable for the market and through increased market discipline. Administrative means is only temporary. But we cannot give up all administrative means all together. Why? It is not that the market itself is unable to solve the problem. The truth may possibly be that the cost is too high, as from time to time the market becomes irrational. However, the market has its own way of functioning. We may also have to pay a big price, if we rely too much on administrative means. Therefore we need to know how to strike a balance.       Hexun.com: The first batch of new shares was, in general, subject to frenzied speculation on the first day they were listed on the stock market. Some even rose by two or three times. CSRC’s policy was intended to to suppress such speculative activities, isn’t it? And will this price spike have an effect on its policy?         Chairman Chen Dongzheng: As far as I know, the CSRC is already working on the problem now. On March 8, 2012, the SZSE issued a similar rule of restricting speculation on new shares on the first day of their listing, and made further minor adjustments half a year later. Back then, during media communication, I said the regulators had all good intentions in this regard. Did it work in suppressing the first-day new shares speculation? Now the result is not as good as expected. And we should not say that suppression of first-day speculation means a done deal.       Caijing Magazine: During the transition to the registration-based IPO system, what will be the role of the SZSE in the future?     Chairman Chen Dongzheng: The SZSE is not in a position to pick what role it wants to play, rather, it is actually doing an earnest job in the role assigned.     Reuters: Mr. Chen, according to what you've said just now, I'd like to ask one more question. If the big blue chips were able to realize the T + 0 trading mechanism, while other stocks were still traded T + 1, then would there be some unfairness in terms of the trading mechanisms?     Chairman Chen Dongzheng: From an objective point of view, this problem does exist. But the so-called fairness is actually a relative thing. For example, in the NBA rules, the free-throw line is drawn further and further, and the area is made larger and larger. But why is that? It is at so high a level that it can only be expanded, and the whole world is now actually following it. We used to play basketball in 2 halves, while now we are following it and playing 4 quarters. From what I have learned, the CSRC is working on the T+0 mechanism now, hoping to make it as fair as possible. Its original intention was to protect the small and medium-cap investors. So I am hoping that, when the CSRC solicits comments on the specific implementation process, we can all offer our pieces of mind. To some extent, there is no absolute fairness in practice. For example, access threshold has been set for the ChiNext Market and the same is true the New Third Board. However, as long as the rules are open and subject to public comment and scrutiny, such a pilot program can be carried out with maximum fairness. One important point about fairness is to be open and transparent. Rules are established and we all know about it. And every one of us must act accordingly.       Tencent: What are the difficulties, do you think, that the urban commercial banks now face in listing? Are you concerned that some of their bad debts may have an effect on the quality of the assets?     Chairman Chen Dongzheng: I support the listing of not only urban commercial banks, but also rural commercial banks. Last year I made a special proposal in this regard. As stated in the report of the Prime Minister this year, we should turn the world of financing into a pool of flowing water, to irrigate small and micro-sized enterprises as well as agriculture, rural areas and farmers. In this sense, to support the listing of a small financial institution is of far greater importance than to support the listing of an ordinary company. In our country, there are only small proportions of enterprises which can meet the listing standards and are able to gain direct support through the capital market. Most small and micro-sized enterprises are still relying on indirect financing as a major means of getting funds. For the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as for rural enterprises to really have access to substantial support, it is very important to revitalize financial support for the small and medium-sized municipal commercial banks and rural commercial banks to grow bigger and stronger.     From America to Japan, the proportion of small and medium-sized financial institutions listed is very high. The urban commercial banks in Beijing are the most representative. Now the assets of Bank of Beijing have already exceeded RMB 1 trillion. There are now quite a variety of small and medium-sized financial institutions, including financial guarantees, small loans, pawning and etc. Relatively speaking, the urban commercial banks and rural commercial banks are more mature. Though not free from risks in their listings, they have made efforts to improve the control of financial risks after they listed. For example, the Bank of Nanjing, Bank of Ningbo, Bank of Beijing and Shanghai Pudong Development Bank listed in the SZSE, and the Bank of Chongqing listed in Hong Kong. Their listing is indeed of great help to improve their own level of risk control. Therefore, in order to truly enliven the water in the pool of finance, and to genuinely support the development of the Chinese economy, this is where to break through. It is more than worth doing, and will surely do more good than harm. What's more, it is also an option to make risks controllable.       For reporters who pay close attention to the contents of Chairman Chen Dongzheng's proposal, here is a brief introduction by him. Chairman Chen Dongzheng:  My proposal for this year is to elevate SME development to a national strategy. It focuses on three aspects in general. The first is about its significance. Why should we make it a national strategy? When it comes to the core of the decision of the Third Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee concerning comprehensively deepening reform, in my opinion, each of us may have our own understanding. Well, as for me, I believe that what we should do is to maximize and make the most of the enthusiasm of the general population, and to establish and take measures in all aspects. As stressed in the Prime Minister's government work report, we must rely on reform bonuses, mobilize the broad masses, and solve the greatest concerns of the masses. Small and medium-sized enterprises have, in fact, already fully contributed more than 50% on various economic indicators. SMEs are increasingly engaged in independent innovation. From the perspective of the ChiNext Market and the SME Board, we must give fair weight to their significance. The second point is about “urgency”. And I will not go into details.     The third is about “concrete suggestions”. To begin with, we should undertake law amendments. What made it possible to launch the SME Board in the first place? Legislators enacted a law entitled Law of Promoting Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. It has been in force for 12 years, and now is in need of modifications and improvements. Furthermore, the country has now begun to work on the Thirteenth Five-year Plan. This should also be made a part of it. Last but not least, we should speed up the process of improving the financial service support system for small and medium-sized enterprises. Included are several points: the first is that large commercial banks should further intensify special credit support for small and medium-sized enterprises. The second is to advance the differentiated development of small and medium-sized financial institutions such as rural commercial banks, urban commercial banks, etc., to enable them to focus on serving the local micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, supporting them to grow bigger and stronger through the listing platforms, thus promoting indirect financing by means of direct financing. The third point is to accelerate the development of a multi-tiered market, to enable the SME Board, the ChiNext Market, the Third Board and the Fourth Board (regional equities trading centers) to highlight their respective characteristics according to their unique orientation, and to push forward the registration system reform actively yet prudently by following the general plan of the CPC Central Committee. And the fourth suggestion is to establish a joint inter-ministerial meeting system, to further strengthen the support for the small and medium-sized enterprises.     Thank you very much.  

SZSE Intensifies Efforts to Promote Supervisory and Regulatory Information Transparency
date:2014-3-31
Shenzhen Stock Exchange has been disclosing weekly updates for its supervision over listed companies via official Micro-blog and WeChat platform since February 24, giving public access to regulatory information with the focus on ex post reviewing of information disclosure by listed companies, provisional trading suspension, risk warnings, supervision measures and irregularities punishments. As addressed by principal of SZSE, market transparency is the cornerstone for the effective running of securities markets, and is also the essential for the protection for investors, especially medium and small investors. On the one hand SZSE will push forward the transparency of listed companies, and on the other hand enhance the transparency in its own supervision. Disclosing supervisory information updates is an important move in SZSE’s regulatory transparency efforts, which would safeguard the sunlight supervision in compliance with laws.   Since February 17 to March 14, SZSE has reviewed 10909 pieces of listed company announcements, given out warnings or requested companies to verify and make timely disclosure on issues of commitment fulfillment results, media queries, investors’ complaints, management shareholding changes during window periods, loans overdue, and material assets restructuring by means of issuing inquiry letters or official regulatory correspondences. The scope for SZSE’s open regulatory information has been expended and the content has been enriched. For example, the open information has included changes in stock trading risk warning and trading of restricted shares, and further statements on reasons for provisional trading suspension and regulatory letters’ issuing.   Moreover, in order to further enhance the quality, efficiency and transparency of its self-supervision and services, SZSE has been providing open information to listed companies about business processing schedule and specific steps they’re at. On the official website of SZSE, listed companies can get timely updates about the processing schedule of seven businesses including applications for unlocking of restricted shares and listing of non-public offering securities. They can also learn about the processes undergoing and time spent in the processes of application material submission, material receiving, material supplement and correction, application reviewing, and review results (approved or unapproved). So far, open information for 540 businesses has been available for listed companies of Shenzhen markets.   As addressed by Mr Xiao Gang, the head of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, at the national conference on securities and futures regulation, supervision and regulatory should turn for fairness, transparency, preciseness and efficiency. SZSE will intensify efforts to improve regulatory transparency, following the principle of stabilizing the regulatory expectations of market players, and putting rules, processes and results in the openness and transparency.

Press Conference by Ms. Song Liping, President and CEO of the SZSE, at the NPC and CPPCC
date:2014-3-28
I am very happy to attend this press conference organized by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), and I would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation for your long-standing attention to the capital market and strong support for the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE). This has been the second time for me to attend the annual sessions of the National People's Congress (NPC). During the NPC and CPPCC sessions, I was actively engaged in an in-depth discussion with nearly three thousand NPC deputies over the work arrangements for further advancing economic and social development this year, and was indeed greatly enlightened and inspired. Now I would like to briefly touch upon the SZSE’s general work plan this year in connection with my understandings derived from attending the NPC and CPPCC sessions.     The NPC and CPPCC sessions this year, with their main theme focusing on reforms, are the first sessions held after the 3rd Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee. Premier Li's government work report has provided a wealth of information about the capital market.     First, social expectations are stabilized. As stressed in Premier Li's report, this year, we will continue to keep policies stable, ensuring steady growth, ensuring bottom line of employment and ceiling of inflation target. We will focus on economic restructuring and maintain continuity of macroeconomic policies. Meanwhile, the report, following the requirements of a good-faith and rule of law, the government has unequivocally put forward the reform and development tasks for the year. With commitment to every word in the plan, the report ensures rational market expectations for this year's government work.     Second, reform will bring vitality to the market. This is embodied in a set of three principles and the policy directions for fulfilling the target tasks for the year, as well as the nine priorities of the government, most notably in the list of reform activities in key fields. 1.  Administration streamlining and power delegation. Among the approximately 1,600 companies listed on the SZSE, most are growth and innovation-oriented enterprises, which are operating on the first line of the market and standing on the frontier of transformation. Over the past year, the Chinese government has been conscientiously practicing various reforms, starting from a change in itself by reforming its administrative approval system. Last year, a total of 416 administrative approval procedures were either axed in batches or otherwise delegated to lower-level governments by the State Council, and this year will see 200 more. Some of the structural and institutional obstacles which have for long been restricting the ability of enterprises to develop were finally cracked, an achievement leading to broader space for their growth.     2. Innovation-driven concept. Premier Li's report proposed that we accelerate reform of the science and technology system and scale up pilot programs for the reform of the rights to dispose of and receive proceeds from science and technology achievements, recognizing innovation as a driving force to optimizing and adjust China's economic structure. We have visited many research institutes and science and technology enterprises, but regretfully found out that a significant volume of scientific research achievements with obvious market prospects had been shelved in laboratories, instead of being offered for the benefit of the entire market in good time. One vital obstacle lies in the difficulty in confirming the share rights associated with the scientific and technological achievements, leading to the fact that the science and technology personnel are not enjoying the corresponding equities as they should, and further damaging their enthusiasm in pursuing innovation in scientific and technological researches. This year will witness amendments to the Law of the People's Republic of China on Promoting the Transformation of Scientific and Technological Achievements, and is therefore a very good opportunity indeed. There was a statement in Premier Li's report about the reform of the rights to dispose of and receive proceeds from scientific and technological achievements. With an intense focus on the most important link in driving economic development through innovation, it will prove to be very conducive for us to establish a pricing and trading mechanism for scientific and technological achievements by relying on the capital market, and to build up the ability of the listed companies in pursuing scientific and technological innovation and in transforming the scientific and technological achievements into a source of performance growth to bring higher returns to their investors.     3 Reform of state-owned assets. There are 1,300 state-owned holding listed companies in China, which together account for a weight as high as 81% in the Shanghai and Shenzhen 300 Index (CSI 300). Premier Li's report stressed efforts to speed up the development of the mixed-ownership economy, and improve the management system for state-owned assets, which will help activate the state-owned listed companies with significant influence on the capital market. As you may also have noticed, the recent launch of the reform of mixed ownership by Sinopec is filling the market with great expectations for the future development of state-owned listed companies.     During the NPC and CPPCC sessions this year, the topic about the significance and the path of developing a mixed-ownership economy has aroused a heated discussion among representatives from some of the state-owned enterprises. The majority of them hold the belief that the capital market serves as an important platform for mixed ownership. First, it is open and transparent to avoid black-box operations; second, it provides a fair pricing to prevent tunneling; third, it facilitates cross-industry, cross-region, cross-ownership restructuring activities and mergers & acquisitions of assets and provides liquidity, which well preserves or increases the asset values; fourth, it offers risk management to ensure the safety of assets; fifth, it fosters the establishment and improvement of a modern enterprise system, and strengthens the micro basis for sustainable economic development, allowing the enterprise to play the principal role in market competition.     Through the transformation from assets management to capital management in the reform of state-owned assets by relying on the capital market, we can help boost the long-term returns on state-owned capitals, and will fundamentally solve the problem of low returns on the capital market. At present, a lot of state-owned assets holding companies are operating more often on their current profit targets. I once came in contact with a municipal state-owned assets management department. Because a profit decline suffered by the state-owned assets companies in some sectors affected the asset profit targets for the year of the city as a whole, the Department required those state-owned assets companies with better growth to additionally increase their current profits, some of whom even went as far as selling a number of very promising assets in exchange for current profits.     The reform of state-owned assets is a big project, needing joint efforts and high attentions from every one of us. Former CAPCO Chairman Chen Qingtai has recently published in Caijing Magazine an article titled Roadmap for Reform of State-owned Assets, in which he had provided a comparatively systemic and thorough analysis of this issue. You may find it a very useful source for consultation.     When it comes to what SZSE will be doing specifically this year, I think, we should adapt to the reform situations and task requirements, and focus on advancing regulatory restructuring and improving our service quality. In respect of the regulatory restructuring, we should streamline the ex-ante approval procedures, and reinforce both interim supervision and ex post supervision. As an organizer of the market and self-regulatory organization, the exchange is the hub of market operation, and will take a more prominent role in exercising interim supervision. We will offer active cooperation for this transition in the following three aspects: The first is to improve the investor-oriented information disclosure mechanism, and enhance market transparency. We will work hard on achieving real-time, targeted and effective information disclosure, leaving the enterprise, as the principal player in the market to play the survival game under a full-information condition and by the self-discipline of the market itself, in order to ensure the efficiency of market allocation.     The second is to enhance risk assessment and monitoring capabilities. The exchange is a natural big database. Over the years, we have been employing various data mining technologies to strengthen market supervision. In recent years, we have been extending our efforts to text mining activities targeting the announcements and network information of listed companies, and in the future, we will further incorporate unstructured data such as videos into our field of vision, bringing the first-line supervision of the exchange into the era of big data in an all-round way. Last year, for example, we intensified intelligent building of corporate governance, allowing the regulators to compare in real time the announcements of the listed companies with their historical information, the network information and the information of other companies within the same industry, and identify anomalies and clues of violations in a timely manner.     The third is to give full play to the role of self-regulatory supervision, and to timely stop violations and impose punishments. By exercising flexible and effective self-regulatory supervision and imposing disciplinary sanctions, the exchange should be able to intervene in violation behaviors in a timely manner and as early as possible, swiftly communicate the information of such violations to the whole market, as an early warning and protection for investors, and submit clues of any violation cases to the CSRC without delay, so that the violations can be detected earlier, and the relevant evidence can be fixed properly. Over the last year, we have made 65 disciplinary sanction decisions, and have for the first time, publicly denounced the sponsor representatives and personnel of the securities service institutions. And we have reported an accumulative total of 133 cases of abnormal fluctuations, up 34% from the previous year.     In the process of comprehensively deepening the reform of the capital market, the quality of the principal market players will become the decisive factor affecting the quality of capital market operation. Over the years, the SZSE has been paying high attention to market incubation services, and this year, we will continue to do a great job in market services by focusing on three aspects:     1 Investor relations management. Over the past few years, we have been continuously engaged in various Company Visit programs. These activities created opportunities for face-to-face dialogues and communications between the management like Chairmen, with investors, especially with small and medium-sized investors and proved to be very fruitful. For example, the Chairmen of some listed companies are very outstanding players in the industries they are engaged in. Some of them are scientists, and some are excellent managers. But when in face of investors, they have been left with no choice but to resort to "draft-reading", even at so close a distance in between. This is an indication that they are not paying too much attention to their communication with the investors.     So what about the investors? Every time we went to the listed companies, we would hold various invitation activities across the country, sometimes through securities companies, because the investors are their clients. The investors were all behaving very proactively. One of them, for example, during our visit to a listed company two years ago, even drove for 200 kilometers to join us and insisted that he would like to meet the Chairman of a listed company he had been investing in for many years. After meeting with the Chairman, he said, "I actually have for many years wanted to see the company and meet its Chairman personally and finally I had the chance. I asked him lots of targeted questions." These activities also left a huge impact on the Chairmen and senior executives of the listed companies. For example, two years ago, when we went to a large listed company, the investors were indeed very tough, questioning that since the companies had heaped up huge amounts of cash, why they couldn't buy back their shares of the respective companies according to international practice to spur the sluggish stock. Such a face-to-face challenge did give the Chairman a shock. This scenario may have been presented in relevant trainings before, but it will surely have a far more strong effect on the Chairmen when they are confronted with the questioning from their own shareholders.     You may be familiar with a service called "Easy Voting" that the SZSE provides. We have nearly 1,600 companies listed on the SZSE which are operating all over the country, and numerous investors, which are also distributed all over the country, mainly small and medium-sized investors. Then how can we make it more convenient for the investors to participate in the general meetings of shareholders? And how can we enable them to vote more easily and at low cost? Here "Easy Voting" is playing a major role. We have found out that some companies chose to hold their general meetings of shareholders in relatively remote places, and at times when investors were not available, so we required that they adopt a form of Internet voting in these meetings, for the convenience of the investors. As such, Easy Voting has played a very important role.     2 Buyer incubation. Buyers' quality determines the quality of the market. Last year, we developed the first domestic online investor education game platform called "Easy Investor Education". On the basis of the more than 20 years' real historical market transaction data of the SZSE, the platform brings together multiple investor education games like "Investment Simulation", "Psychological Test", "How Much Do You Know About Stock Market", etc. With the Easy Investor Education, investors can really build up a philosophy of rational investment, by simulating different investment strategies for the stocks they have invested in, and repeatedly comparing with previous operation. This year, we will promote the Easy Investor Education to over 6,000 business departments across the country.     3 Information quality. Information quality directly determines the investment quality of buyers. With the advent of the era of Internet and big data, we have seen a significant reduction in the costs of information collection, processing, analysis and transmission, and we will give play to the role of public platforms, making up for the weakness of the investors in such aspects as information collection and analysis. This year, we will upgrade the "XBRL Demonstration Project" website to a platform called "Easy Analysis", and integrate the XBRL, Internet information technology and visualization technology to provide investors with chart data, multidimensional exhibition, information analysis and other services, and help them understand the financial and operating performance of listed companies in an intuitive and easily accessible manner.     Launched this year, the phone APP version of the Easy IR platform was greatly welcomed by everyone. We have been placing great emphasis on the disclosure of research information of institutional investors by the Easy IR, and have released 14,000 pieces of research information since its availability in July 2012. Questions for institutional researches, which are of high quality, great depth and strong professionalism, have proved to be a good help to small and medium-sized investors, when shared with investors through the Easy IR. By the way, I need to note the fact that the market pricing power depends on whether there is a group of price discovers and leaders. We have made a great effort to build a public platform like this in order to leverage the professional advantages of institutional investors, enhance the information quality of the market as a whole, and motivate issuers to continuously improve the quality of information disclosure.     Through these activities, we felt it a must to connect with the investors to develop benign interactions. The more services you provide to the investors, the better you can understand their needs. Through the analysis of the interaction between listed companies and investors, we can also shed light on problems facing the listed companies in information disclosure and investor relations, and be oriented to investors' needs in information disclosure regulation.     There is no ending to our services. We must be market-oriented.   Q&As: Panorama Network: You just mentioned that the EasyIR was now getting better and better, and more and more investors and listed companies were turning to it to communicate and interact. Well, the investors may find that some of the listed companies are not making their points clear, but the listed companies are also in a pretty difficult situation, since the Easy IR is not yet a statutory media of disclosure. I would like to ask you how to deal with the deviation in communication from a regulatory level, while allowing for a bigger role of the Easy IR? Song Liping: Every day, we will analyze the questions on the Easy IR, and figure out backstage how fast the listed companies are answering them. Since the listed companies answer the questions raised by the investors within a short time, their answers will unavoidably present a varied picture in terms of quality and level of complexity. Here several problems are involved. One is that the listed companies do have the legal obligation of information disclosure, and should all make disclosures in accordance with information disclosure rules. This is mandatory. Also there is now a part of voluntary disclosure in the EasyIR. This is, I think, a very important part. It reflects the differences between the listed companies. Well, there is still a lot of room for improvement. For example, by comparing the listed companies within the same industry, you will find that the quality of their disclosure is not the same. I think that is where the investors will make choices, because it is fully public. The investors will make comparisons and be drawn more to those which are offering a very high quality of information disclosure. The result is likely to be making investments. This is followed by a constant flow of questions of a higher quality. And the listed companies will continuously perfect themselves according to the questions the investors put to their attention. Many listed companies, especially those showing better growth and better performance, are very concerned about what the investors will ask them, as well as what the investors will ask other listed companies in the same industry, as a way of gearing up their own companies' operations. So I'm sure that these companies will do better and better in the capital market, by continuously attracting high quality investors, who will in turn bring in the advantageous role of the capital market.     Disregard for investors' high-quality questions, in contrast, will lead to differentiation. Companies of low disclosure quality will be separated almost immediately from the group. So, companies like these are actually likely subjects for differentiated review procedures for mergers and acquisitions, as well as the differentiated regulation system. Otherwise, what else could be the basis for us to identify problems? Moreover, the investors should recognize that in the EasyIR, the disclosure of part of the information is mandatory, whereas the rest is not. This, in my opinion, requires strict distinction.     Shanghai Evening Post: Ms. Song, a question about trading channels. We found that the new shares listed were always bought by a fixed group of hot money institutions. This may seem to be an unfair trade for some investors. There may be possible VIP trading channels, according to media reports. What's your view on this?     Song Liping: From the perspective of the exchange, it is the same as specified by the trading rules. We provide the same trading channels for all of our members.    China Business News: Ms. Song, since the IPO restart, there has been no change in the "frenzied speculation" of newly listed shares, especially on the ChiNext Market which has maintained a relatively high PE ratio. If there is any risk, do you think, in this phenomenon? How could it be improved? Also, Chairman Xiao has noted that a lot of effort will be put in developing the private market this year. We are wondering what measures will be taken in this respect. Thank you.     Song Liping: Your first question is already answered by Chairman Chen the day before yesterday. We are now actively working on mechanisms to settle the suspension of new shares on the first day of their listings.     Your second question is about the ChiNext Market. Indeed, last year has seen a structural price rise in the Board. But because the ChiNext index is only the constituent index of 100 stocks, its rise does not mean that the prices of all the stocks of the over 300 companies listed on the ChiNext Market are rising. And even in the 100 constituent stocks of the ChiNext Board, there is also a structural rise. For example, in the information technology, telecommunications, discretionary consumption and health & medicine industries, the constituent stocks of the ChiNext Market has made a 72% contribution to the rise in the ChiNext Stock Index. The top 20 companies have made a cumulative contribution of 58%.     The third question relates to private placement. Ms Wu Xiaoling mentioned in a press interview yesterday that this was covered by the Securities Law. I think the private placement market is a very important part, and we are also hoping that modifications to the part of private placement can also be included in the amendments to the Securities Law this year, so as to provide legal safeguard for its development.     Specifically, the SZSE will continue to develop SME private placement bonds. So far, nearly 200 enterprises have issued SME private placement bonds, and have raised nearly 20 billion, but this is still some distance away from what we have originally expected. The power of the buyside is still very weak. The market is still accustomed to public placement products. Once private placement comes to play, the customer management ability of our intermediary institutions and the constraints of the buyers are under severe test, because private products require the buyers to be very highly capable of identifying risks.     Exchangeable bonds are also a product we are paying special attention to. Because substantial shareholders are reluctant to reduce their shares in the short term, but they also have to meet their financing demand. Then what's to be done? We can offer such a channel right within the market. We can pledge the stocks first, and then issue exchangeable bonds. The substantial shareholder of a stock on the ChiNext Board has already issued exchangeable bonds. These are all private placement products.     Private placement products are enjoying very broad prospects. On the one hand, institutional improvements should be made, and on the other hand, intermediary institutions should also attach great importance to the development of private placement products.     Chinese Securities Journal: A question about the guidelines for information disclosure by industry. We have made a report about a listed company. It turned out that their prospectus did not conform to the Guidelines for Information Disclosure. According to the SZSE, it was formerly an IPO company but was not listed, and instead of being bound by the Guidelines for Information Disclosure by Industry, it may make disclosure by means of prospectus, before it was listed. So the SZSE could not make a judgment on this. I would like to ask when the guidelines for information disclosure by industry of the SZSE will cover a category of listed companies like these. Song Liping: This involves the seamless connection between issuing and listing. Particularly, in the environment of our current market, the issuance cycle is very long. Sometimes after issuing is completed, there is still a period of time to wait before listing. So how can we realize connection between issuing and listing? This is a very important matter, and we have already begun working on it. The question you raised is just one part of it, and there are some other post-meeting issues. Over the past two years, we have gradually taken several measures to achieve seamless connection.     21st Century Business Herald: Big data played a great role in the various case clues of the exchange last year. Could you say more about how we were doing last year, in terms of big data application and law enforcement, and what we can do to improve for the future?       Song Liping: Intelligent market regulation has been one of our key priorities, and we have a special team dedicated to this. Because the original information was widely scattered, we had to put it all together. We have had a hard time assimilating the data mining and text mining technologies, as these technologies did present some difficulties to us, realistically speaking. Then we had set up a special team to study the American Sonar system, that is, to collect all aspects of information. But as you know, there are some differences in Chinese and English text information. And we faced this kind of problem during the implementation process. This is one of the bottlenecks we have encountered for now.     Well, you may also have known something about our real-time monitoring of share prices. In fact, this type of monitoring has already covered the information monitoring of listed companies. This was the biggest change we made last year. It has also found application in other areas. For example, for an increasing number of underlying securities in securities margin trading, we were applying big data in their risk assessment and monitoring, and furthermore, it was also used in the products involving stock right pledge. It is now moving gradually towards full coverage.     China Securities Journal: How will the reform of ChiNext Refinancing be like this year? Will there be any new products?     Song Liping: Last year, the State Council has approved preferred stocks. The CSRC has prepared a public opinion soliciting draft of administrative measures for pilot projects of preferred stocks. The listed companies will add a new class of preferred stocks in the former refinancing categories.    China Daily: What are the highlights of refinancing rules for the ChiNext Board? For example, who will set the amount? How will the industry be adjusted? In addition, as international investors are very much interested in the ChiNext Maekwr, thinking that it is the representative of China's new economy, I would like to ask what measures the SZSE will take in this respect, as far as the foreign investors are concerned.       Song Liping: ChiNext Market refinancing rules were organized and finally promulgated by the CSRC. It is not our administrative measures for refinancing, and we are only participants. I think we all will see the final version soon, which will prove to be better. We are hoping that we can adapt to the characteristics of the companies listed on the ChiNext Market, and implement the small-amount fast refinancing mechanism we have been promoting for years.     Your second question relates to foreign investors. You may also have noticed that, beginning from the year before last, we have been working specifically on foreign investor relations management, such as by inviting QFII investors to visit some of the listed companies in China. You also mentioned that they were very much interested in China's domestic listed companies, especially those enterprises with good growth potential. We have special English websites, which serve as a window for servicing foreign investors, and Market Bulletin, which provide them timely access to the information of the domestic listed companies of interest to them. This year, we are going to go deeper and wider in this respect, to meet the needs of institutional investors, and continue to organize visits for them to the listed companies they have interest in.      China Economic Weekly: Ms. Song, just now, you brought up the amendments to the Securities Law. That is something every one of us is looking forward to. And I would like to know what your thoughts are about this in terms of its idea and direction. Thank you.     Song Liping: I hope that several aspects can be covered in the amendments to the Securities Law this time. Like private placement that I just mentioned. The original Securities Law has made very clear provisions for public placement, but not for private placement. And regional market, which is a relatively blank area in law. But it is also very important, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, and is playing an ever increasing role in supporting regional economic development. And it will be just in time to have it modified during the amendments to the Securities Law this year.     AAStocks: I would like to have your views on the strategic emerging industries board, as well as the framework of cooperation between the SZSE and HKEx. Thank you.     Song Liping: I have noticed that Chairman Gui also raised a proposal this time. It shows that the emerging industries have been drawing attention from many more areas and market forces. This is indeed very advantageous to their development. This year marks the fifth year of the ChiNext Market. Well, during its development course of nearly five years, it has attracted a batch of emerging industries like the Internet, new energy, environmental protection, health and culture to go public, and has proven to be fruitful to a certain extent. But the ChiNext Board is still a long way away from what it was primarily designed for and what the market is expecting of it, both in terms of its current development and its staged achievements. Just now, you have mentioned the IPO refinancing system of the ChiNext Board. This system is also in a process of constant improvements.     Well, after the launch of the ChiNext Market, we all are still seeing companies like Dangdang, Alibaba, choose to be listed on overseas markets. Previously, such as in the 1990s, all of the three major portals in our country went overseas to be listed, because we hadn't the ChiNext Board at that time. But now, after the ChiNext Board was made available, why is that these enterprises are still getting listed overseas? This is something really worth reflecting on.     In addition, the ChiNext Market isn't large in scale. Totally 379 companies were listed on it, with a combined market value of 1.7 trillion. Tencent was listed in Hong Kong. It is a Shenzhen-based company, with a market value worth nearly one trillion. The market value of Tencent alone exceeds more than half of the total market value of the 379 companies, so it can be said that the ChiNext Board is indeed of a relatively small scale. Small scale would easily lead to instability. On the other hand, as a matter of fact, we launched the ChiNext Board after careful analyses of over 40 Second Board Markets across the world. The Nasdaq is the most successful of them, and our ChiNext Board is developed based on it.     But whether it is in terms of scale or system, I think, currently, we are in a very critical period of growth and development. The Central Committee of CPC has, in particular, put forward the strategy of deploying the innovation chain around the central industry chain, and perfecting the capital chain around the innovation chain. The ChiNext Market plays a very important role in integrating the industrial chain, the innovation chain and the capital chain. We are keenly aware of the enormous responsibility on our shoulders, and are acting most cautiously as if treading on thin ice. To be frank, in its critical period of development, we are recommending that we go all out to build the ChiNext Board into a better market, and live up to our mission.     When it comes to the cooperation between Shenzhen and Hong Kong, on the one hand, our information is interchangeable, and there is a natural advantage for cooperation between the two sides. Two years ago, we have contributed to set up the China Index Services Company, together with HKEx, and of course, the SSE. This is the product of joint efforts in developing the Greater China Region.     There is one more thing, the B- to H- share conversion, as you may have taken an interest in. Two companies have already successfully converted their B shares into H shares, CIMC and Livzon. Vanke's recent program for B- to H- share conversion was also approved by the CSRC. This not only served as a very beneficial exploration effort into the financial cooperation between Shenzhen and Hong Kong, but also helped build up experiences.     China Business Network TV: Two questions about the board transfer mechanism. What is the main idea in its design? And how is it faring currently?     Song Liping: The board transfer mechanism is indeed very important. First, there should be clear and fair positioning for each board. For example, I just mentioned that the ChiNext Market only had over 300 companies listed on it after nearly five years. The SME Board has been up and running for ten years. But only 719 companies have been listed on it and their combined market value is just around 4 trillion. So first of all, we have to build a solid market base for each board. This, I think, is our top priority.     It is the same with the New Third Board. After it was expanded across the country last year, it has begun to show signs of very promising development. Well, even in this process of development, it is essentially at the very beginning, and still requires a lot of effort to be taken in aspects of system design, enterprise listing, promotions and many more.     It is on this basis, and according to the needs of market development, and system arrangements that we should implement the board transfer mechanism. Here is involved the "way of introduction". And the support of legal system is also required.     Caixin Magazine: As mentioned by Chairman Gui Minjie, the strategic emerging industries board may overlap with the ChiNext Market to a certain extent, and competition will still exist between the two, though they are in different orientations. He said that competition was a good thing, but was not sure about what the SZSE would be doing to get prepared for this?       Song Liping: First of all, we will do our best to build and improve the ChiNext Market. This is something I already explained to you just now. It is very important for the development of China's economy as a whole to maintain healthy competition with the SSE and galvanize mutual development. Though China is the world's second largest economy, development level and scale of its capital market lags far behind. The current economic structure in our country is characterized by diversity. There are the development of emerging industries and transformation of traditional industries. The reform of state-owned enterprises, fostering of private economy and development of mixed ownership go side by side. So the ChiNext market has been charged with a lot of heavy tasks. But this also presents us with great opportunities.     The two exchanges are the direct product of reform and opening-up. Over the past 20 years, it is reform that has been driving the development of the exchanges. Therefore, amidst a new round of efforts in comprehensively deepening the reform, our two exchanges will see huge space for development. To my point of view, the two exchanges may play a better and bigger role in the nation’s economic development as a whole, if they strive for differentiated development while leveraging their own unique advantages.    PAN>     Shanghai Evening Post: Ms. Song, a question about trading channels. We found that the new shares listed were always bought by a fixed group of hot money institutions. This may seem to be an unfair trade for some investors. There may be possible VIP trading channels, according to media reports. What's your view on this?     Song Liping: From the perspective of the exchange, it is the same as specified by the trading rules. We provide the same trading channels for all of our members.    China Business News: Ms. Song, since the IPO restart, there has been no change in the "frenzied speculation" of newly listed shares, especially on the ChiNext Market which has maintained a relatively high PE ratio. If there is any risk, do you think, in this phenomenon? How could it be improved? Also, Chairman Xiao has noted that a lot of effort will be put in developing the private market this year. We are wondering what measures will be taken in this respect. Thank you.     Song Liping: Your first question is already answered by Chairman Chen the day before yesterday. We are now actively working on mechanisms to settle the suspension of new shares on the first day of their listings.     Your second question is about the ChiNext Market. Indeed, last year has seen a structural price rise in the Board. But because the ChiNext index is only the constituent index of 100 stocks, its rise does not mean that the prices of all the stocks of the over 300 companies listed on the ChiNext Market are rising. And even in the 100 constituent stocks of the ChiNext Board, there is also a structural rise. For example, in the information technology, telecommunications, discretionary consumption and health & medicine industries, the constituent stocks of the ChiNext Market has made a 72% contribution to the rise in the ChiNext Stock Index. The top 20 companies have made a cumulative contribution of 58%.     The third question relates to private placement. Ms Wu Xiaoling mentioned in a press interview yesterday that this was covered by the Securities Law. I think the private placement market is a very important part, and we are also hoping that modifications to the part of private placement can also be included in the amendments to the Securities Law this year, so as to provide legal safeguard for its development.     Specifically, the SZSE will continue to develop SME private placement bonds. So far, nearly 200 enterprises have issued SME private placement bonds, and have raised nearly 20 billion, but this is still some distance away from what we have originally expected. The power of the buyside is still very weak. The market is still accustomed to public placement products. Once private placement comes to play, the customer management ability of our intermediary institutions and the constraints of the buyers are under severe test, because private products require the buyers to be very highly capable of identifying risks.     Exchangeable bonds are also a product we are paying special attention to. Because substantial shareholders are reluctant to reduce their shares in the short term, but they also have to meet their financing demand. Then what's to be done? We can offer such a channel right within the market. We can pledge the stocks first, and then issue exchangeable bonds. The substantial shareholder of a stock on the ChiNext Board has already issued exchangeable bonds. These are all private placement products.     Private placement products are enjoying very broad prospects. On the one hand, institutional improvements should be made, and on the other hand, intermediary institutions should also attach great importance to the development of private placement products.     Chinese Securities Journal: A question about the guidelines for information disclosure by industry. We have made a report about a listed company. It turned out that their prospectus did not conform to the Guidelines for Information Disclosure. According to the SZSE, it was formerly an IPO company but was not listed, and instead of being bound by the Guidelines for Information Disclosure by Industry, it may make disclosure by means of prospectus, before it was listed. So the SZSE could not make a judgment on this. I would like to ask when the guidelines for information disclosure by industry of the SZSE will cover a category of listed companies like these. Song Liping: This involves the seamless connection between issuing and listing. Particularly, in the environment of our current market, the issuance cycle is very long. Sometimes after issuing is completed, there is still a period of time to wait before listing. So how can we realize connection between issuing and listing? This is a very important matter, and we have already begun working on it. The question you raised is just one part of it, and there are some other post-meeting issues. Over the past two years, we have gradually taken several measures to achieve seamless connection.     21st Century Business Herald: Big data played a great role in the various case clues of the exchange last year. Could you say more about how we were doing last year, in terms of big data application and law enforcement, and what we can do to improve for the future?       Song Liping: Intelligent market regulation has been one of our key priorities, and we have a special team dedicated to this. Because the original information was widely scattered, we had to put it all together. We have had a hard time assimilating the data mining and text mining technologies, as these technologies did present some difficulties to us, realistically speaking. Then we had set up a special team to study the American Sonar system, that is, to collect all aspects of information. But as you know, there are some differences in Chinese and English text information. And we faced this kind of problem during the implementation process. This is one of the bottlenecks we have encountered for now.     Well, you may also have known something about our real-time monitoring of share prices. In fact, this type of monitoring has already covered the information monitoring of listed companies. This was the biggest change we made last year. It has also found application in other areas. For example, for an increasing number of underlying securities in securities margin trading, we were applying big data in their risk assessment and monitoring, and furthermore, it was also used in the products involving stock right pledge. It is now moving gradually towards full coverage.     China Securities Journal: How will the reform of ChiNext Refinancing be like this year? Will there be any new products?     Song Liping: Last year, the State Council has approved preferred stocks. The CSRC has prepared a public opinion soliciting draft of administrative measures for pilot projects of preferred stocks. The listed companies will add a new class of preferred stocks in the former refinancing categories.    China Daily: What are the highlights of refinancing rules for the ChiNext Board? For example, who will set the amount? How will the industry be adjusted? In addition, as international investors are very much interested in the ChiNext Maekwr, thinking that it is the representative of China's new economy, I would like to ask what measures the SZSE will take in this respect, as far as the foreign investors are concerned.       Song Liping: ChiNext Market refinancing rules were organized and finally promulgated by the CSRC. It is not our administrative measures for refinancing, and we are only participants. I think we all will see the final version soon, which will prove to be better. We are hoping that we can adapt to the characteristics of the companies listed on the ChiNext Market, and implement the small-amount fast refinancing mechanism we have been promoting for years.     Your second question relates to foreign investors. You may also have noticed that, beginning from the year before last, we have been working specifically on foreign investor relations management, such as by inviting QFII investors to visit some of the listed companies in China. You also mentioned that they were very much interested in China's domestic listed companies, especially those enterprises with good growth potential. We have special English websites, which serve as a window for servicing foreign investors, and Market Bulletin, which provide them timely access to the information of the domestic listed companies of interest to them. This year, we are going to go deeper and wider in this respect, to meet the needs of institutional investors, and continue to organize visits for them to the listed companies they have interest in.      China Economic Weekly: Ms. Song, just now, you brought up the amendments to the Securities Law. That is something every one of us is looking forward to. And I would like to know what your thoughts are about this in terms of its idea and direction. Thank you.     Song Liping: I hope that several aspects can be covered in the amendments to the Securities Law this time. Like private placement that I just mentioned. The original Securities Law has made very clear provisions for public placement, but not for private placement. And regional market, which is a relatively blank area in law. But it is also very important, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, and is playing an ever increasing role in supporting regional economic development. And it will be just in time to have it modified during the amendments to the Securities Law this year.     AAStocks: I would like to have your views on the strategic emerging industries board, as well as the framework of cooperation between the SZSE and HKEx. Thank you.     Song Liping: I have noticed that Chairman Gui also raised a proposal this time. It shows that the emerging industries have been drawing attention from many more areas and market forces. This is indeed very advantageous to their development. This year marks the fifth year of the ChiNext Market. Well, during its development course of nearly five years, it has attracted a batch of emerging industries like the Internet, new energy, environmental protection, health and culture to go public, and has proven to be fruitful to a certain extent. But the ChiNext Board is still a long way away from what it was primarily designed for and what the market is expecting of it, both in terms of its current development and its staged achievements. Just now, you have mentioned the IPO refinancing system of the ChiNext Board. This system is also in a process of constant improvements.     Well, after the launch of the ChiNext Market, we all are still seeing companies like Dangdang, Alibaba, choose to be listed on overseas markets. Previously, such as in the 1990s, all of the three major portals in our country went overseas to be listed, because we hadn't the ChiNext Board at that time. But now, after the ChiNext Board was made available, why is that these enterprises are still getting listed overseas? This is something really worth reflecting on.     In addition, the ChiNext Market isn't large in scale. Totally 379 companies were listed on it, with a combined market value of 1.7 trillion. Tencent was listed in Hong Kong. It is a Shenzhen-based company, with a market value worth nearly one trillion. The market value of Tencent alone exceeds more than half of the total market value of the 379 companies, so it can be said that the ChiNext Board is indeed of a relatively small scale. Small scale would easily lead to instability. On the other hand, as a matter of fact, we launched the ChiNext Board after careful analyses of over 40 Second Board Markets across the world. The Nasdaq is the most successful of them, and our ChiNext Board is developed based on it.     But whether it is in terms of scale or system, I think, currently, we are in a very critical period of growth and development. The Central Committee of CPC has, in particular, put forward the strategy of deploying the innovation chain around the central industry chain, and perfecting the capital chain around the innovation chain. The ChiNext Market plays a very important role in integrating the industrial chain, the innovation chain and the capital chain. We are keenly aware of the enormous responsibility on our shoulders, and are acting most cautiously as if treading on thin ice. To be frank, in its critical period of development, we are recommending that we go all out to build the ChiNext Board into a better market, and live up to our mission.     When it comes to the cooperation between Shenzhen and Hong Kong, on the one hand, our information is interchangeable, and there is a natural advantage for cooperation between the two sides. Two years ago, we have contributed to set up the China Index Services Company, together with HKEx, and of course, the SSE. This is the product of joint efforts in developing the Greater China Region.     There is one more thing, the B- to H- share conversion, as you may have taken an interest in. Two companies have already successfully converted their B shares into H shares, CIMC and Livzon. Vanke's recent program for B- to H- share conversion was also approved by the CSRC. This not only served as a very beneficial exploration effort into the financial cooperation between Shenzhen and Hong Kong, but also helped build up experiences.     China Business Network TV: Two questions about the board transfer mechanism. What is the main idea in its design? And how is it faring currently?     Song Liping: The board transfer mechanism is indeed very important. First, there should be clear and fair positioning for each board. For example, I just mentioned that the ChiNext Market only had over 300 companies listed on it after nearly five years. The SME Board has been up and running for ten years. But only 719 companies have been listed on it and their combined market value is just around 4 trillion. So first of all, we have to build a solid market base for each board. This, I think, is our top priority.     It is the same with the New Third Board. After it was expanded across the country last year, it has begun to show signs of very promising development. Well, even in this process of development, it is essentially at the very beginning, and still requires a lot of effort to be taken in aspects of system design, enterprise listing, promotions and many more.     It is on this basis, and according to the needs of market development, and system arrangements that we should implement the board transfer mechanism. Here is involved the "way of introduction". And the support of legal system is also required.     Caixin Magazine: As mentioned by Chairman Gui Minjie, the strategic emerging industries board may overlap with the ChiNext Market to a certain extent, and competition will still exist between the two, though they are in different orientations. He said that competition was a good thing, but was not sure about what the SZSE would be doing to get prepared for this?       Song Liping: First of all, we will do our best to build and improve the ChiNext Market. This is something I already explained to you just now. It is very important for the development of China's economy as a whole to maintain healthy competition with the SSE and galvanize mutual development. Though China is the world's second largest economy, development level and scale of its capital market lags far behind. The current economic structure in our country is characterized by diversity. There are the development of emerging industries and transformation of traditional industries. The reform of state-owned enterprises, fostering of private economy and development of mixed ownership go side by side. So the ChiNext market has been charged with a lot of heavy tasks. But this also presents us with great opportunities.     The two exchanges are the direct product of reform and opening-up. Over the past 20 years, it is reform that has been driving the development of the exchanges. Therefore, amidst a new round of efforts in comprehensively deepening the reform, our two exchanges will see huge space for development. To my point of view, the two exchanges may play a better and bigger role in the nation’s economic development as a whole, if they strive for differentiated development while leveraging their own unique advantages.    PAN>     Shanghai Evening Post: Ms. Song, a question about trading channels. We found that the new shares listed were always bought by a fixed group of hot money institutions. This may seem to be an unfair trade for some investors. There may be possible VIP trading channels, according to media reports. What's your view on this?     Song Liping: From the perspective of the exchange, it is the same as specified by the trading rules. We provide the same trading channels for all of our members.    China Business News: Ms. Song, since the IPO restart, there has been no change in the "frenzied speculation" of newly listed shares, especially on the ChiNext Market which has maintained a relatively high PE ratio. If there is any risk, do you think, in this phenomenon? How could it be improved? Also, Chairman Xiao has noted that a lot of effort will be put in developing the private market this year. We are wondering what measures will be taken in this respect. Thank you.     Song Liping: Your first question is already answered by Chairman Chen the day before yesterday. We are now actively working on mechanisms to settle the suspension of new shares on the first day of their listings.     Your second question is about the ChiNext Market. Indeed, last year has seen a structural price rise in the Board. But because the ChiNext index is only the constituent index of 100 stocks, its rise does not mean that the prices of all the stocks of the over 300 companies listed on the ChiNext Market are rising. And even in the 100 constituent stocks of the ChiNext Board, there is also a structural rise. For example, in the information technology, telecommunications, discretionary consumption and health & medicine industries, the constituent stocks of the ChiNext Market has made a 72% contribution to the rise in the ChiNext Stock Index. The top 20 companies have made a cumulative contribution of 58%.     The third question relates to private placement. Ms Wu Xiaoling mentioned in a press interview yesterday that this was covered by the Securities Law. I think the private placement market is a very important part, and we are also hoping that modifications to the part of private placement can also be included in the amendments to the Securities Law this year, so as to provide legal safeguard for its development.     Specifically, the SZSE will continue to develop SME private placement bonds. So far, nearly 200 enterprises have issued SME private placement bonds, and have raised nearly 20 billion, but this is still some distance away from what we have originally expected. The power of the buyside is still very weak. The market is still accustomed to public placement products. Once private placement comes to play, the customer management ability of our intermediary institutions and the constraints of the buyers are under severe test, because private products require the buyers to be very highly capable of identifying risks.     Exchangeable bonds are also a product we are paying special attention to. Because substantial shareholders are reluctant to reduce their shares in the short term, but they also have to meet their financing demand. Then what's to be done? We can offer such a channel right within the market. We can pledge the stocks first, and then issue exchangeable bonds. The substantial shareholder of a stock on the ChiNext Board has already issued exchangeable bonds. These are all private placement products.     Private placement products are enjoying very broad prospects. On the one hand, institutional improvements should be made, and on the other hand, intermediary institutions should also attach great importance to the development of private placement products.     Chinese Securities Journal: A question about the guidelines for information disclosure by industry. We have made a report about a listed company. It turned out that their prospectus did not conform to the Guidelines for Information Disclosure. According to the SZSE, it was formerly an IPO company but was not listed, and instead of being bound by the Guidelines for Information Disclosure by Industry, it may make disclosure by means of prospectus, before it was listed. So the SZSE could not make a judgment on this. I would like to ask when the guidelines for information disclosure by industry of the SZSE will cover a category of listed companies like these. Song Liping: This involves the seamless connection between issuing and listing. Particularly, in the environment of our current market, the issuance cycle is very long. Sometimes after issuing is completed, there is still a period of time to wait before listing. So how can we realize connection between issuing and listing? This is a very important matter, and we have already begun working on it. The question you raised is just one part of it, and there are some other post-meeting issues. Over the past two years, we have gradually taken several measures to achieve seamless connection.     21st Century Business Herald: Big data played a great role in the various case clues of the exchange last year. Could you say more about how we were doing last year, in terms of big data application and law enforcement, and what we can do to improve for the future?       Song Liping: Intelligent market regulation has been one of our key priorities, and we have a special team dedicated to this. Because the original information was widely scattered, we had to put it all together. We have had a hard time assimilating the data mining and text mining technologies, as these technologies did present some difficulties to us, realistically speaking. Then we had set up a special team to study the American Sonar system, that is, to collect all aspects of information. But as you know, there are some differences in Chinese and English text information. And we faced this kind of problem during the implementation process. This is one of the bottlenecks we have encountered for now.     Well, you may also have known something about our real-time monitoring of share prices. In fact, this type of monitoring has already covered the information monitoring of listed companies. This was the biggest change we made last year. It has also found application in other areas. For example, for an increasing number of underlying securities in securities margin trading, we were applying big data in their risk assessment and monitoring, and furthermore, it was also used in the products involving stock right pledge. It is now moving gradually towards full coverage.     China Securities Journal: How will the reform of ChiNext Refinancing be like this year? Will there be any new products?     Song Liping: Last year, the State Council has approved preferred stocks. The CSRC has prepared a public opinion soliciting draft of administrative measures for pilot projects of preferred stocks. The listed companies will add a new class of preferred stocks in the former refinancing categories.    China Daily: What are the highlights of refinancing rules for the ChiNext Board? For example, who will set the amount? How will the industry be adjusted? In addition, as international investors are very much interested in the ChiNext Maekwr, thinking that it is the representative of China's new economy, I would like to ask what measures the SZSE will take in this respect, as far as the foreign investors are concerned.       Song Liping: ChiNext Market refinancing rules were organized and finally promulgated by the CSRC. It is not our administrative measures for refinancing, and we are only participants. I think we all will see the final version soon, which will prove to be better. We are hoping that we can adapt to the characteristics of the companies listed on the ChiNext Market, and implement the small-amount fast refinancing mechanism we have been promoting for years.     Your second question relates to foreign investors. You may also have noticed that, beginning from the year before last, we have been working specifically on foreign investor relations management, such as by inviting QFII investors to visit some of the listed companies in China. You also mentioned that they were very much interested in China's domestic listed companies, especially those enterprises with good growth potential. We have special English websites, which serve as a window for servicing foreign investors, and Market Bulletin, which provide them timely access to the information of the domestic listed companies of interest to them. This year, we are going to go deeper and wider in this respect, to meet the needs of institutional investors, and continue to organize visits for them to the listed companies they have interest in.      China Economic Weekly: Ms. Song, just now, you brought up the amendments to the Securities Law. That is something every one of us is looking forward to. And I would like to know what your thoughts are about this in terms of its idea and direction. Thank you.     Song Liping: I hope that several aspects can be covered in the amendments to the Securities Law this time. Like private placement that I just mentioned. The original Securities Law has made very clear provisions for public placement, but not for private placement. And regional market, which is a relatively blank area in law. But it is also very important, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, and is playing an ever increasing role in supporting regional economic development. And it will be just in time to have it modified during the amendments to the Securities Law this year.     AAStocks: I would like to have your views on the strategic emerging industries board, as well as the framework of cooperation between the SZSE and HKEx. Thank you.     Song Liping: I have noticed that Chairman Gui also raised a proposal this time. It shows that the emerging industries have been drawing attention from many more areas and market forces. This is indeed very advantageous to their development. This year marks the fifth year of the ChiNext Market. Well, during its development course of nearly five years, it has attracted a batch of emerging industries like the Internet, new energy, environmental protection, health and culture to go public, and has proven to be fruitful to a certain extent. But the ChiNext Board is still a long way away from what it was primarily designed for and what the market is expecting of it, both in terms of its current development and its staged achievements. Just now, you have mentioned the IPO refinancing system of the ChiNext Board. This system is also in a process of constant improvements.     Well, after the launch of the ChiNext Market, we all are still seeing companies like Dangdang, Alibaba, choose to be listed on overseas markets. Previously, such as in the 1990s, all of the three major portals in our country went overseas to be listed, because we hadn't the ChiNext Board at that time. But now, after the ChiNext Board was made available, why is that these enterprises are still getting listed overseas? This is something really worth reflecting on.     In addition, the ChiNext Market isn't large in scale. Totally 379 companies were listed on it, with a combined market value of 1.7 trillion. Tencent was listed in Hong Kong. It is a Shenzhen-based company, with a market value worth nearly one trillion. The market value of Tencent alone exceeds more than half of the total market value of the 379 companies, so it can be said that the ChiNext Board is indeed of a relatively small scale. Small scale would easily lead to instability. On the other hand, as a matter of fact, we launched the ChiNext Board after careful analyses of over 40 Second Board Markets across the world. The Nasdaq is the most successful of them, and our ChiNext Board is developed based on it.     But whether it is in terms of scale or system, I think, currently, we are in a very critical period of growth and development. The Central Committee of CPC has, in particular, put forward the strategy of deploying the innovation chain around the central industry chain, and perfecting the capital chain around the innovation chain. The ChiNext Market plays a very important role in integrating the industrial chain, the innovation chain and the capital chain. We are keenly aware of the enormous responsibility on our shoulders, and are acting most cautiously as if treading on thin ice. To be frank, in its critical period of development, we are recommending that we go all out to build the ChiNext Board into a better market, and live up to our mission.     When it comes to the cooperation between Shenzhen and Hong Kong, on the one hand, our information is interchangeable, and there is a natural advantage for cooperation between the two sides. Two years ago, we have contributed to set up the China Index Services Company, together with HKEx, and of course, the SSE. This is the product of joint efforts in developing the Greater China Region.     There is one more thing, the B- to H- share conversion, as you may have taken an interest in. Two companies have already successfully converted their B shares into H shares, CIMC and Livzon. Vanke's recent program for B- to H- share conversion was also approved by the CSRC. This not only served as a very beneficial exploration effort into the financial cooperation between Shenzhen and Hong Kong, but also helped build up experiences.     China Business Network TV: Two questions about the board transfer mechanism. What is the main idea in its design? And how is it faring currently?     Song Liping: The board transfer mechanism is indeed very important. First, there should be clear and fair positioning for each board. For example, I just mentioned that the ChiNext Market only had over 300 companies listed on it after nearly five years. The SME Board has been up and running for ten years. But only 719 companies have been listed on it and their combined market value is just around 4 trillion. So first of all, we have to build a solid market base for each board. This, I think, is our top priority.     It is the same with the New Third Board. After it was expanded across the country last year, it has begun to show signs of very promising development. Well, even in this process of development, it is essentially at the very beginning, and still requires a lot of effort to be taken in aspects of system design, enterprise listing, promotions and many more.     It is on this basis, and according to the needs of market development, and system arrangements that we should implement the board transfer mechanism. Here is involved the "way of introduction". And the support of legal system is also required.     Caixin Magazine: As mentioned by Chairman Gui Minjie, the strategic emerging industries board may overlap with the ChiNext Market to a certain extent, and competition will still exist between the two, though they are in different orientations. He said that competition was a good thing, but was not sure about what the SZSE would be doing to get prepared for this?       Song Liping: First of all, we will do our best to build and improve the ChiNext Market. This is something I already explained to you just now. It is very important for the development of China's economy as a whole to maintain healthy competition with the SSE and galvanize mutual development. Though China is the world's second largest economy, development level and scale of its capital market lags far behind. The current economic structure in our country is characterized by diversity. There are the development of emerging industries and transformation of traditional industries. The reform of state-owned enterprises, fostering of private economy and development of mixed ownership go side by side. So the ChiNext market has been charged with a lot of heavy tasks. But this also presents us with great opportunities.     The two exchanges are the direct product of reform and opening-up. Over the past 20 years, it is reform that has been driving the development of the exchanges. Therefore, amidst a new round of efforts in comprehensively deepening the reform, our two exchanges will see huge space for development. To my point of view, the two exchanges may play a better and bigger role in the nation’s economic development as a whole, if they strive for differentiated development while leveraging their own unique advantages.    PAN>     Shanghai Evening Post: Ms. Song, a question about trading channels. We found that the new shares listed were always bought by a fixed group of hot money institutions. This may seem to be an unfair trade for some investors. There may be possible VIP trading channels, according to media reports. What's your view on this?     Song Liping: From the perspective of the exchange, it is the same as specified by the trading rules. We provide the same trading channels for all of our members.    China Business News: Ms. Song, since the IPO restart, there has been no change in the "frenzied speculation" of newly listed shares, especially on the ChiNext Market which has maintained a relatively high PE ratio. If there is any risk, do you think, in this phenomenon? How could it be improved? Also, Chairman Xiao has noted that a lot of effort will be put in developing the private market this year. We are wondering what measures will be taken in this respect. Thank you.     Song Liping: Your first question is already answered by Chairman Chen the day before yesterday. We are now actively working on mechanisms to settle the suspension of new shares on the first day of their listings.     Your second question is about the ChiNext Market. Indeed, last year has seen a structural price rise in the Board. But because the ChiNext index is only the constituent index of 100 stocks, its rise does not mean that the prices of all the stocks of the over 300 companies listed on the ChiNext Market are rising. And even in the 100 constituent stocks of the ChiNext Board, there is also a structural rise. For example, in the information technology, telecommunications, discretionary consumption and health & medicine industries, the constituent stocks of the ChiNext Market has made a 72% contribution to the rise in the ChiNext Stock Index. The top 20 companies have made a cumulative contribution of 58%.     The third question relates to private placement. Ms Wu Xiaoling mentioned in a press interview yesterday that this was covered by the Securities Law. I think the private placement market is a very important part, and we are also hoping that modifications to the part of private placement can also be included in the amendments to the Securities Law this year, so as to provide legal safeguard for its development.     Specifically, the SZSE will continue to develop SME private placement bonds. So far, nearly 200 enterprises have issued SME private placement bonds, and have raised nearly 20 billion, but this is still some distance away from what we have originally expected. The power of the buyside is still very weak. The market is still accustomed to public placement products. Once private placement comes to play, the customer management ability of our intermediary institutions and the constraints of the buyers are under severe test, because private products require the buyers to be very highly capable of identifying risks.     Exchangeable bonds are also a product we are paying special attention to. Because substantial shareholders are reluctant to reduce their shares in the short term, but they also have to meet their financing demand. Then what's to be done? We can offer such a channel right within the market. We can pledge the stocks first, and then issue exchangeable bonds. The substantial shareholder of a stock on the ChiNext Board has already issued exchangeable bonds. These are all private placement products.     Private placement products are enjoying very broad prospects. On the one hand, institutional improvements should be made, and on the other hand, intermediary institutions should also attach great importance to the development of private placement products.     Chinese Securities Journal: A question about the guidelines for information disclosure by industry. We have made a report about a listed company. It turned out that their prospectus did not conform to the Guidelines for Information Disclosure. According to the SZSE, it was formerly an IPO company but was not listed, and instead of being bound by the Guidelines for Information Disclosure by Industry, it may make disclosure by means of prospectus, before it was listed. So the SZSE could not make a judgment on this. I would like to ask when the guidelines for information disclosure by industry of the SZSE will cover a category of listed companies like these. Song Liping: This involves the seamless connection between issuing and listing. Particularly, in the environment of our current market, the issuance cycle is very long. Sometimes after issuing is completed, there is still a period of time to wait before listing. So how can we realize connection between issuing and listing? This is a very important matter, and we have already begun working on it. The question you raised is just one part of it, and there are some other post-meeting issues. Over the past two years, we have gradually taken several measures to achieve seamless connection.     21st Century Business Herald: Big data played a great role in the various case clues of the exchange last year. Could you say more about how we were doing last year, in terms of big data application and law enforcement, and what we can do to improve for the future?       Song Liping: Intelligent market regulation has been one of our key priorities, and we have a special team dedicated to this. Because the original information was widely scattered, we had to put it all together. We have had a hard time assimilating the data mining and text mining technologies, as these technologies did present some difficulties to us, realistically speaking. Then we had set up a special team to study the American Sonar system, that is, to collect all aspects of information. But as you know, there are some differences in Chinese and English text information. And we faced this kind of problem during the implementation process. This is one of the bottlenecks we have encountered for now.     Well, you may also have known something about our real-time monitoring of share prices. In fact, this type of monitoring has already covered the information monitoring of listed companies. This was the biggest change we made last year. It has also found application in other areas. For example, for an increasing number of underlying securities in securities margin trading, we were applying big data in their risk assessment and monitoring, and furthermore, it was also used in the products involving stock right pledge. It is now moving gradually towards full coverage.     China Securities Journal: How will the reform of ChiNext Refinancing be like this year? Will there be any new products?     Song Liping: Last year, the State Council has approved preferred stocks. The CSRC has prepared a public opinion soliciting draft of administrative measures for pilot projects of preferred stocks. The listed companies will add a new class of preferred stocks in the former refinancing categories.    China Daily: What are the highlights of refinancing rules for the ChiNext Board? For example, who will set the amount? How will the industry be adjusted? In addition, as international investors are very much interested in the ChiNext Maekwr, thinking that it is the representative of China's new economy, I would like to ask what measures the SZSE will take in this respect, as far as the foreign investors are concerned.       Song Liping: ChiNext Market refinancing rules were organized and finally promulgated by the CSRC. It is not our administrative measures for refinancing, and we are only participants. I think we all will see the final version soon, which will prove to be better. We are hoping that we can adapt to the characteristics of the companies listed on the ChiNext Market, and implement the small-amount fast refinancing mechanism we have been promoting for years.     Your second question relates to foreign investors. You may also have noticed that, beginning from the year before last, we have been working specifically on foreign investor relations management, such as by inviting QFII investors to visit some of the listed companies in China. You also mentioned that they were very much interested in China's domestic listed companies, especially those enterprises with good growth potential. We have special English websites, which serve as a window for servicing foreign investors, and Market Bulletin, which provide them timely access to the information of the domestic listed companies of interest to them. This year, we are going to go deeper and wider in this respect, to meet the needs of institutional investors, and continue to organize visits for them to the listed companies they have interest in.      China Economic Weekly: Ms. Song, just now, you brought up the amendments to the Securities Law. That is something every one of us is looking forward to. And I would like to know what your thoughts are about this in terms of its idea and direction. Thank you.     Song Liping: I hope that several aspects can be covered in the amendments to the Securities Law this time. Like private placement that I just mentioned. The original Securities Law has made very clear provisions for public placement, but not for private placement. And regional market, which is a relatively blank area in law. But it is also very important, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, and is playing an ever increasing role in supporting regional economic development. And it will be just in time to have it modified during the amendments to the Securities Law this year.     AAStocks: I would like to have your views on the strategic emerging industries board, as well as the framework of cooperation between the SZSE and HKEx. Thank you.     Song Liping: I have noticed that Chairman Gui also raised a proposal this time. It shows that the emerging industries have been drawing attention from many more areas and market forces. This is indeed very advantageous to their development. This year marks the fifth year of the ChiNext Market. Well, during its development course of nearly five years, it has attracted a batch of emerging industries like the Internet, new energy, environmental protection, health and culture to go public, and has proven to be fruitful to a certain extent. But the ChiNext Board is still a long way away from what it was primarily designed for and what the market is expecting of it, both in terms of its current development and its staged achievements. Just now, you have mentioned the IPO refinancing system of the ChiNext Board. This system is also in a process of constant improvements.     Well, after the launch of the ChiNext Market, we all are still seeing companies like Dangdang, Alibaba, choose to be listed on overseas markets. Previously, such as in the 1990s, all of the three major portals in our country went overseas to be listed, because we hadn't the ChiNext Board at that time. But now, after the ChiNext Board was made available, why is that these enterprises are still getting listed overseas? This is something really worth reflecting on.     In addition, the ChiNext Market isn't large in scale. Totally 379 companies were listed on it, with a combined market value of 1.7 trillion. Tencent was listed in Hong Kong. It is a Shenzhen-based company, with a market value worth nearly one trillion. The market value of Tencent alone exceeds more than half of the total market value of the 379 companies, so it can be said that the ChiNext Board is indeed of a relatively small scale. Small scale would easily lead to instability. On the other hand, as a matter of fact, we launched the ChiNext Board after careful analyses of over 40 Second Board Markets across the world. The Nasdaq is the most successful of them, and our ChiNext Board is developed based on it.     But whether it is in terms of scale or system, I think, currently, we are in a very critical period of growth and development. The Central Committee of CPC has, in particular, put forward the strategy of deploying the innovation chain around the central industry chain, and perfecting the capital chain around the innovation chain. The ChiNext Market plays a very important role in integrating the industrial chain, the innovation chain and the capital chain. We are keenly aware of the enormous responsibility on our shoulders, and are acting most cautiously as if treading on thin ice. To be frank, in its critical period of development, we are recommending that we go all out to build the ChiNext Board into a better market, and live up to our mission.     When it comes to the cooperation between Shenzhen and Hong Kong, on the one hand, our information is interchangeable, and there is a natural advantage for cooperation between the two sides. Two years ago, we have contributed to set up the China Index Services Company, together with HKEx, and of course, the SSE. This is the product of joint efforts in developing the Greater China Region.     There is one more thing, the B- to H- share conversion, as you may have taken an interest in. Two companies have already successfully converted their B shares into H shares, CIMC and Livzon. Vanke's recent program for B- to H- share conversion was also approved by the CSRC. This not only served as a very beneficial exploration effort into the financial cooperation between Shenzhen and Hong Kong, but also helped build up experiences.     China Business Network TV: Two questions about the board transfer mechanism. What is the main idea in its design? And how is it faring currently?     Song Liping: The board transfer mechanism is indeed very important. First, there should be clear and fair positioning for each board. For example, I just mentioned that the ChiNext Market only had over 300 companies listed on it after nearly five years. The SME Board has been up and running for ten years. But only 719 companies have been listed on it and their combined market value is just around 4 trillion. So first of all, we have to build a solid market base for each board. This, I think, is our top priority.     It is the same with the New Third Board. After it was expanded across the country last year, it has begun to show signs of very promising development. Well, even in this process of development, it is essentially at the very beginning, and still requires a lot of effort to be taken in aspects of system design, enterprise listing, promotions and many more.     It is on this basis, and according to the needs of market development, and system arrangements that we should implement the board transfer mechanism. Here is involved the "way of introduction". And the support of legal system is also required.     Caixin Magazine: As mentioned by Chairman Gui Minjie, the strategic emerging industries board may overlap with the ChiNext Market to a certain extent, and competition will still exist between the two, though they are in different orientations. He said that competition was a good thing, but was not sure about what the SZSE would be doing to get prepared for this?       Song Liping: First of all, we will do our best to build and improve the ChiNext Market. This is something I already explained to you just now. It is very important for the development of China's economy as a whole to maintain healthy competition with the SSE and galvanize mutual development. Though China is the world's second largest economy, development level and scale of its capital market lags far behind. The current economic structure in our country is characterized by diversity. There are the development of emerging industries and transformation of traditional industries. The reform of state-owned enterprises, fostering of private economy and development of mixed ownership go side by side. So the ChiNext market has been charged with a lot of heavy tasks. But this also presents us with great opportunities.     The two exchanges are the direct product of reform and opening-up. Over the past 20 years, it is reform that has been driving the development of the exchanges. Therefore, amidst a new round of efforts in comprehensively deepening the reform, our two exchanges will see huge space for development. To my point of view, the two exchanges may play a better and bigger role in the nation’s economic development as a whole, if they strive for differentiated development while leveraging their own unique advantages.    

SZSE Releases 2013 Retail Investor Survey Report
date:2014-3-27
(Press Release)   Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) recently released the 2013 Retail Investor Survey Report, which provides first-hand information for the improvement of investor education and service.   It has been the fifth annual survey conducted by SZSE since 2009, covering investors’ educational levels, trading practices and decision-making manners, brokerage houses’ risk education and investor service, and investors’ reaction to trading risk alerts and Internet finance. The survey included both follow-ups on previous surveys and new emerging issues.   To ensure the survey is scientific and precise, SZSE has entrusted Nielsen Company (China), a renowned survey agency, with distribution and collection of questionnaires. The current survey, starting in December 2013 and ending in January 2014, targeted individuals aged between 25 and 55 who had traded stocks in the last 12 months. It selected one to two representative cities in each of the nation’s six major areas based on regional distribution of securities accounts and the age structure of investors, i.e.: Beijing (North China), Dalian (Northeast China), Shanghai and Hangzhou (East China), Wuhan (Central China), Chengdu (West China), and Guangzhou and Shenzhen (South China).   According to the characteristics of investors with different ages, the survey was conducted online for those aged above 50 and those below 50. Finally, 3,076 valid samples were collected, with standard error less than 3% (confidence level 95%), including over 350 samples of cross-board investors, with standard error less than 6% (confidence level 95%) and over 100 samples of ChiNext investors, with standard error less than 10% (confidence level 95%). (Note: investors were grouped into three categories, namely, cross-board investors, ChiNext investors and non-ChiNext investors. ChiNext investors referred to those who had traded on the ChiNext market as well as other boards of SZSE in the past 12 months, while non-ChiNext investors referred to those who had not traded on the ChiNext board in the past 12 months even though they might had opened ChiNext accounts. Other terms such as “securities investors”, “retail investors” or “investors” as used in the report all referred to cross-board investors.)   The survey results are summarized as follows:   1. Educational levels of cross-board investors continued to rise, and ChiNext investors have received even higher education. In 2013, educational levels of cross-board investors continued to rise. 74% investors surveyed had a bachelor's degree or above compared to 71% in 2012. ChiNext investors had even higher educational levels. 79% ChiNext investors had a bachelor's degree or above, which was six percentage points higher than the figure of 73% for non-ChiNext investors.   2. Investors regained confidence in equity investment with increased trading activity In 2013, retail investors’ confidence in equity investment and their trading activity were on the increase. More specifically， 1. Retail investors’ capital investment in securities markets rose. The average balance of assets in the accounts of investors surveyed was RMB 494,000, a significant increase from RMB 381,000 in 2012. The average account balance for ChiNext investors maintained at last year’s figure of RMB 673,000, and the figure for non-ChiNext investors soared from RMB 284,000 in 2012 to RMB 435,000 in 2013, an increase of 53%. 2. Retail investors’ asset allocation to equity investment went up slightly. The investors surveyed invested 28.3% of their total investment value in equities in 2013, which was slightly higher than the figure of 26.6% for 2012. 3. Non-ChiNext investors’ trading activity was slightly up. The average trading frequency for investors surveyed was 5.3 trades per month in 2013, compared to 5.0 trades per month in 2012. Specifically, the average trading frequency for ChiNext investors was 5.1 trades per month, compared to 5.4 trades per month in 2012; Non-ChiNext investors traded more actively in 2013, with their average trading frequency rising from 4.8 trades per month in 2012 to 5.4 trades per month in 2013.   3. Investors’ asset portfolio was more diversified and funds’ penetration surged Investors’ asset portfolio became more diversified in 2013. The respondents owned an average of 4.49 investment products per capita, which was higher than the figure of 4.21 and 3.84 in 2012 and 2011 respectively. Except for wealth management products offered by banks, precious metal and FX products, the penetration level of all types of investment products grew to different extents. Public funds were investors’ most favored product with cash inflows up 10% from that in 2012.   4. ChiNext investors’ expected return and risk tolerance were higher than that of non-ChiNext investors According to the survey, ChiNext investors’ expected annualized average rate of return was 25.9% in 2013, which was close to the figure of 26.2% in 2012. Their tolerable rate of losses was 23.6%, compared to 24.6% in 2012.  Non-ChiNext Investors’ expected return on equity investment rose from 19.1% in 2012 to 21.8% in 2013. Their tolerable rate of losses was 20.3%, which was largely remained unchanged from that in 2012. Overall, both ChiNext investors’ expected return and risk tolerance were higher than that of non- ChiNext investors.    5. Investors used more sources to obtain investment information and paid more attention to listed companies’ fundamentals    In general, the investors surveyed used more investment information sources than the previous year, with an average of 3.3 sources in 2013 compared to 3 sources in 2012. Similar to previous year, the top three sources in 2013 were “analysis of technical indicators such as price movement and turnover changes”(59%), “Internet media (such as stock chat-bar, forum and weibo)”(47%) and “information disclosure such as prospectuses, periodic reports and ad hoc announcements”(40%). It is of note that the percentages of “field investigation of listed companies” and “participation in investor seminars” increased considerably from that in 2012, by 7 and 4 percentage points respectively, indicating that investors paid more and more attention to analysis of listed companies’ fundamentals. With respect to various boards, ChiNext investors used more investment information sources, averaged at 3.7, than non-ChiNext investors, averaged at 3.1. Non-ChiNext investors relied more on personal recommendation, while ChiNext investors focused more on their own judgment based on the information they collected from stock price movement, company announcements, brokers’ investment reports, etc.       6. The competition in securities brokerage business heated up further, commission price wars cooled down, and brokerage houses continued to enhance their service quality The average commission rate of securities houses continued to fall in 2013, but with reduced declining range. Compared to the levels of 0.08% in 2012 and 0.11% in 2011, the average commission rate was 0.07% in 2013. This indicated that brokerage houses no longer solicited investors solely by price wars. On the other hand, brokerage houses enhanced their competitiveness by improving their services to investors. 75% of brokerage houses took the initiative to contact their clients, higher than the figure of 73% in 2012. Their average frequency of contacting investors was 0.85 time per week, higher than 0.82 time per week in 2012. The top three contact purposes were “recommendation of stocks or investment products”, “update on macro environment policy changes” and “alert of trading risk”, accounting for 72%, 65% and 57% respectively. As for contact means, 79% of brokerage houses chose SMS, the next were telephone (66%) and E-mail (52%). 53% of the respondents had positive views on brokerage houses’ contacts with them and said that the contacts were “of great or considerable help to them,” higher than the figure of 49% in 2012.   7. Most retail investors were cautious on margin trading and securities lending as they generally held that margin trading and securities lending involves great trading risk As a basic credit trading system in securities markets, margin trading and securities lending has increased trading activity since its introduction in 2010. The survey reveals that the respondents became more risk-averse when it came to margin trading and securities lending. Of all the respondents who had participated in margin trading and securities lending, over 81% held that margin trading and securities lending involves great trading risk and therefore they “should be more cautious” than trading stocks. The respondents who had not opened margin trading and securities lending accounts mainly attributed their unwillingness to “margin trading and securities lending involves a very high degree of risk” and “don’t know or haven't hear of margin trading and securities lending”, representing 45% and 30% of the respondents who had not participated in margin trading and securities lending.   8. SZSE investor relations platforms yielded initial results In order to obtain the information about investors’ satisfaction to SZSE’s IR services, for the first time this year, the survey included a comprehensive inquiry about SZSE’s Easy IR and other IR service platforms. The inquiry reveals that the SZSE IR platforms gained initial success. Specifically: 1. More investors recognized and used SZSE’s web-based EasyIR service. 51% of the respondents said that they know the website, a sharp rise from 44% in 2012. Among the 51%, more than eighty percent (82%) had used the website. 2. More than forty percent (43%) of investors recognized SZSE’s Easy Investment Knowledge service, an online investor education and game website. Among these investors, more than eighty percent (82%) had visited the website and experienced the service. 3. More than forty percent (45%) of the respondents know the contact information of SZSE’s client service team. Among the respondents who had contacted the team, 42% were fully satisfied, 58% were relatively satisfied, and almost no one was dissatisfied with the service.   9.  Investors were positive on “online voting at general shareholders’ meetings”, but some worried about the effectiveness of online voting The respondents were enthusiastic about online voting. 61% of the respondents said that if online voting is fully introduced they would “selectively participate in online voting depending on the importance of proposals”, and 32% said that they would “actively participate in and try to vote online at every shareholders’ meeting”. As for online voting channels, more than fifty percent (55%) of respondents said that securities trading software is the most convenient online voting channel, and nearly thirty percent (27%) of respondents even expressed their wish to vote via their mobile-phones, with younger, highly educated respondents more preferring mobile phone voting. The three main reasons why some respondents had not participated in online voting included “don’t think that online voting will count” (accounting for 53%), “don’t know how to use online voting system” (accounting for 38%) and “don’t know the availability of online voting” (accounting for 38%).   10. More than ninety percent of investors heeded trading risk alerts as well as securities houses’ SMS and telephone alerts but expected improvement of the contents of alerts 94% of the respondents said they had paid attention to trading risk announcements issued by listed companies and 94% also said that the contents of such announcements need to be improved. When it comes to the SMS/telephone alerts issued by securities companies reminding investors of trading risk announcements, up to 98% of the respondents considered the alerts “necessary” and 44% even “hope that the SMS or telephone alerts contain summaries of the announcements”. Nearly ninety percent (89%) of the respondents recognized the value of trading risk announcements and factored them in when trading. Nearly seventy percent (69%) of the respondents said that they would “make a decision whether or not to reduce positions in relevant equities after taking into account various factors such as market conditions”, while twenty percent (20%) of the respondents said that they would “immediately reduce holdings in relevant equities according to the trading risk alerts”.   11. Internet-mediated finance such as online banking, the third-party payment platform and Internet-based wealth management saw further penetration and over half of investors worried about Internet information security According to the survey, online banking, the third-party payment platform and Internet-based wealth management were the three Internet finance products that were most recognized and used by investors. 83%, 83% and 72% of the respondents “have heard of” the three products respectively. 75%, 74% and 56% of the respondents have “used or wanted to use” the products respectively. As for the various risks associated with Internet finance, more than fifty percent (51%) of investors said that their biggest worry is Internet information security risk. The next worry is finance investment risk (accounting for 18% of the respondents) and policy and regulatory risk (accounting for 14% of the respondents).    

SZSE Organizes the 3rd Session Activities of Listed Companies’ Open House Program for Foreign Investors
date:2014-3-24
Recently, the 3rd session of Listed Companies’ Open House Program especially designed for foreign investors was held by Shenzhen Stock Exchange in Shanghai. About 30 representatives of foreign institutional investors paid visits to companies listed on SME board and ChiNext board, including Challenge (Stock Code: 002486), China Haisum (Stock Code: 002116), Avcon (Stock Code: 300074), and Shanghai Kaibao (Stock Code: 300039). On the field studies at listed companies, investors had an in-depth exchange of views with senior executives on issues of company operation and future strategic planning. In addition, the representative of SZSE made introduction to foreign investors about the development situation of the Exchange and the Five-in-one Investors Service Platform representing by Easy IR. Besides, he replied to questions of foreign investors concerns.   It is known that three sessions of Listed Companies’ Open House Programs designed for foreign investors have been held so far. The first two sessions were held in Shenzhen and Beijing respectively, with participants totaling 80 people and visiting 9 listed companies. Moreover, 86 sessions of Listed Companies’ Open House Programs and Know Your Shareholders designed for domestic investors were held, with participants totaling 4500 medium and small investors.   Foreign investor relations management is one of the key works of SZSE. In recent years, the Exchange has been constantly making improvements for its information services towards foreign investors. Such efforts included upgrading the English website focusing on foreign investors’ needs, opening a QFII zone and mailbox for foreign investors, making market weekly in English language to convey market news, translating company financials and announcements in a timely manner. SZSE will broaden and deepen its efforts in foreign investor relations management, and provide them with diversified information services.

SZSE Holds A Discussing-meeting with Securities Companies
date:2014-3-21
A discussing-meeting was held today by Shenzhen Stock Exchange in hands with the Securities Brokerage Commission to seek advice and hear from the industry regarding the issue that some securities companies opened so-called “VIP” trading channels for its clients.   It is introduced that two steps should be taken before investors’ trading orders entering into the trading host for matching: first, securities companies receive investors’ orders via counter systems, then declare to the stock exchange via PBU (Participant Business Unit) and STG (Securities Trading Gateway); second, the trading host of stock exchanges deals with orders from all trading channels following the principle of time priority and fair trading rules.   So far, some securities companies opened so-called “VIP” trading channels for clients with large capital or frequent trading, such as offering private technical facilities (PBU and STG) so that their clients would gain certain time advantage in making trading declaration in extreme cases, the first trading day for IPO share listing for example. In consequence, the securities offices offering such services were frequently reported in the public information about the first trading day of IPO shares, which has drawn extensive attention from all parties. SZSE has attached great importance to this issue and held the discussing-meeting to study and analyze the market concerns on the basis of previous researches.   As expressed by securities companies attending the discussing-meeting, the above service meets the needs of professional investors with large capital and frequent trading, and caters for the strategy of differentiation customer services. However, it also brings some new problems, such as the conflict between differentiated services and market fairness, system transparency related to the differentiated services and so on. SZSE will, together with relevant regulators and self-discipline organizations, conduct in-depth research, actively adapt to market competition and industry innovation, and maintain “the three-fair principles” of the market.

SZSE Launches Mobile APP for “Easy IR” and Unveils Six Measures to Enhance Market Transparency
date:2014-3-20
-- SZSE Serial Activities for Investor Education Held on 3.15 Consumers’ Rights Day   Taking the opportunity of March 15 – International Day for Protecting Consumers’ Rights, Shenzhen Stock Exchange organized a series of investor education activities in various forms and rich contents, in a bid to strengthen the awareness of investors’ rights and interests and push forward relevant work. These activities include Listed Companies’ Open House Program – Stepping into Tempus Global and Launching of “Easy IR” Mobile APP, Securities Brokers’ Open House Program – Visiting China Investment Securities, the 12th Session of Investors Rights Protection Online Consultation, and the release of 2013 Retail Investor Survey Report.   “Easy IR” Mobile APP Launched   Embracing the advent of the mobile Internet, SZSE launched a mobile application for the original web-based “Easy IR”. The APP is now available on Apple’s APP store and Android APP stores.   At the launch event of the APP, investors representing over 70 securities brokers downloaded the APP and raised questions via the APP. The listed company gave detailed answers to all the questions.   According to the principal of SZSE, the launch of “Easy IR” APP aims at building an innovative way of interacting between investors and listed companies at all times and places, and promoting the efficient interaction and information transparency between them.   The “Easy IR” Mobile APP covers all functions of the web-based version, such as interactive communication, raising questions by investors, responding by companies, voices of companies, IR information center. etc. What makes it differentiate from the web-based version is that the mobile APP enables users to access real-time information and communicate anytime and anywhere. The “Easy IR” Mobile APP is featured with three characteristics: first, easy registration with mobile phone numbers and third party access for users of Tencent and Sina; second, customized information subscription; third, easy SNS forwarding, including Sina Weibo, Tencent QQ, WeChat, etc.   Five-in-one Investors Service Platform Formed   SZSE has placed unprecedented attention to the construction of market transparency and investor protection work, and has formed a Five-in-one Investors Service Platform, which is consisted with the following five parts: Easy IR – a move to smooth the interacting between investors and listed companies; Easy Voting – an unclogged channel for investors’ participation in corporate governance; Easy IK – a turn from didactic approach to experiential approach for investors’ education; Easy Analysis – a push for investors’ education based on different levels and classifications; and Easy Calling – an open channel for consultations and complaints.   In the long run, SZSE will enhance its investor education and services network from the following two aspects: 1. in terms of contents, SZSE will provide more convenient mobile channels to protect investors’ rights to be informed, rights to address inquiries, and rights of decision-making and participating; 2. in terms of application patterns, SZSE will build up a mobile home for investors by integrating the Internet, mobile internet, WeChat and other resources.   Six Measures to Enhance Market Transparency Unveiled   To deepen the efforts in investor protection, SZSE unveiled the following six measures to further enhance market transparency: 1. launching a specialized zone for IPO information query; 2. adding two sections to “Easy IR”, i.e. “Voices of Companies” and “IR Information Center”, where listed companies could publish information other than legal disclosure on their own initiatives; 3. pushing forward the pilot work on online broadcasting of shareholders’ meetings; 4. establishing a database of commitments made by listed companies; 5. enhancing the transparency for SEZE’s business processing schedule; 6. promoting open information in the field of supervision.   The Investor Protection Bureau under China Securities Regulatory Commission extended their congratulations for the launching of “Easy IR” Mobile APP, and regarded it as a significant practice for carrying out the state opinion “to smooth interacting channels of small and medium sized investors”. Moreover, the Bureau is collecting public opinions and suggestions over supervisory policies via the channel of “Easy IR”.   It is known that SZSE will organize Listed Companies’ Open House Programs for overseas investors on March 20 and 21.    

Regular Adjustment to be Made to the Constituents of SZSE ChiNext Index
date:2014-3-20
Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. recently announced to make regular adjustment to the sample stocks for SZSE ChiNext Index, which will come into effect as of the first trading day of April in 2014.   In the adjustment, SZSE ChiNext Index will adjust 7 sample stocks, including taking in Liaoning Julong Financial, Top Resource Conservation and Ganglian Holdings and removing Sino-crystal Diamond, Dongbao Bio-tech and Beilu Pharmaceutical. The newly added sample stocks are focused on the industries of information technology and optional consumer products.   The adjustment will result in enhanced market representativeness for SZSE ChiNext Index. After the adjustment, its coverage of total market capitalization will increase from 52% to 54%, and tradable market capitalization will increase from 57% to 58%. From the view of sector allocation, the proportion of information technology industry and optional consumer products industry will be increased to 32% and 16% respectively, while the proportion of raw material industry will be decreased. According to the 2013 earnings forecasts announced by the 100 post-adjustment sample companies, 9 of them are reporting a YOY growth of over 100%, 18 are reporting a YOY growth of over 50%, and 58 are reporting a YOY growth of over 20%. It indicates that SZSE ChiNext Index is representing a good growth.   In light of high growth characteristics of the ChiNext board, SZSE ChiNext Index makes regular adjustment to sample stocks on a quarterly basis to ensure the timely inclusion of market new vigor, which distinguishes itself from other indices in the market.   More materials can be found on the website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and the website of CNINDEX (www.cnindex.com.cn).

Stock Market Holiday Schedule (2014)
date:2014-1-30
1. New Year:  The market will close on 1 January (Wednesday) and resume trading on 2 January (Thursday).   2. Spring Festival: The market will close from 31 January (Friday) to 6 February (Thursday), and resume trading on 7 February (Friday).   3. Qingming Festival:  The market will close from 5 April (Saturday) to 7 April (Monday), and resume trading on 8 April (Tuesday).   4. Labour Day: The market will close from 1 May (Thursday) to 3 May (Saturday). The market will resume trading on 5 May (Monday).   5. Dragon Boat Festival:  The market will close from 31 May (Saturday) to 2 June (Monday), and resume trading on 3 June (Tuesday).   6. Mid-Autumn Festival: The market will close from 6 September (Saturday) to 8 September (Monday), and resume trading on 9 September (Tuesday).   7. National Day:  The market will close from 1 October (Wednesday) to 7 October (Tuesday), and resume trading on 8 October (Wednesday).   * The market will close on weekends. * For clearing and settlement arrangement, please refer to the notice of the China Securities Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd.

SZSE releases 2013 Self-regulatory Report
date:2014-1-22
The Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) has recently released its 2013 Annual Self-regulatory Report, which covered the main tasks of regulatory enforcement, rule-making, transformation of regulatory methods and optimization of regulatory services undertaken in 2013.   According to the report, the SZSE has actively carried out the overall arrangement of China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) during the year of 2013. It updated its regulatory ideology, exercised regulation innovations, promoted regulatory transformations, and strived to incorporate into its regulatory work the philosophies of strengthening investor protection and allowing the market to play the principal role.   In respect of regulatory enforcement, the SZSE further improved the disciplinary sanction mechanism of “separating investigation and hearing”. During the year, the disciplinary sanction committee held 14 meetings and made 65 disciplinary sanction decisions that involved 59 listed companies and 261 persons. It also imposed 25 trading restriction measures on 36 securities accounts of 34 investors involved in abnormal trading. In respect of rule-making, the SZSE amended or formulated basic rules such as the Trading Rules and the Guidelines on Regulatory Compliance by Listed Companies in Operations and continued to enhance its rule system. It adopted an open rule-making approach to solicit investors’ comments and suggestions through an online communication platform and ensure the scientific rule-making process. In respect of transforming regulatory methods, the SZSE streamlined the examination and registration items by 48% from 31 to 16. It expanded the scope of companies for Through-put Information Disclosure, which further enhanced the disclosure efficiency and better protected investors’ right to know. It also tightened risk prevention-based supervision to guarantee the well-functioning of the market. In respect of optimizing regulatory services, the SZSE rolled out an investor service platform comprising “easy call”, “easy interaction”, “easy investor education”, “easy analysis”, and “easy voting”. It actively cooperated with the CSRC in studying innovative investor-compensation and dispute-settlement mechanisms. It also increased regulatory transparency by disclosing the real-time processing of major asset restructurings and removal of risk alerts for public supervision.   The report also presented an outlook of the SZSE’s regulatory framework for the year of 2014. Under the leadership of the CSRC, the SZSE will study painstakingly the guidelines of the 18th CPC National Congress and the Third Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee, and further implement the Opinions of the General Office of the State Council on Further Strengthening the Legitimate Rights and Interests of Small Investors on the Capital Market. The SZSE will intensify self-regulation, deepen basic functions of market organization and market services, enhance the standardization, rationalization and transparency of market operation and front-line supervision, and work with all market participants to build a more open, fair and efficient multi-tiered capital market.       

SZSE Extends Through-Put Information Disclosure Service to More Companies
date:2014-1-22
In order to strengthen market discipline and reinforce accountability and responsibility of market participants, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) has recently expanded the number of companies and types of announcements eligible for Through-put Information Disclosure. The service is now accessible for companies rated as Grade A, Grade B and Grade C in disclosure quality assessment. Eligible issuers now account for 98.76% of all SZSE-listed companies. Corporate action announcements except those with operational risk are also covered in the service. According to a senior officer with the SZSE, expansion of the Through-put service will help accelerate regulatory transformation and advance regulatory philosophies. The regulatory focus will also be shifted from ex ante examination to ex post supervision.     The SZSE launched the pilot Through-put Information Disclosure service in October 2011. Qualified listed companies can directly disclose particular types of announcements to designated media via the SZSE technology platform. Therefore, listed companies are able to disclose information without the SZSE’s prior examination. The Through-put Information Disclosure not only increases disclosure efficiency, but also saves regulatory resources by shifting regulatory focus from ex ante examination to ex post supervision.   The Through-put Information Disclosure represents a significant change in the means of information disclosure by listed companies. SZSE introduced the service in a planned and progressive way based the principles of “smooth launch”, “step-by-step advancement” and “controllable risks”. Since the pilot launch, SZSE has adjusted the scopes of companies and types of announcements twice in July 2012 and February 2013 respectively.   Based on the smooth operation for more than two years, the SZSE has accumulated valuable experiences and solicited comments and suggestions from listed companies through various channels including training programmes and opinion solicitations. Meanwhile, the SZSE laid great emphasis on all the functionality components related to the operation of the service. It took into account factors including risks in information disclosure, frequency of different types of announcements and users’ operating habits. Constant efforts have been made to create a concise, scientific and systematic framework based on announcement types and to highlight the importance of risk control. A lot of preparatory work has been done to push forward the implementation of the service.   Along with the issuance of IPO reform opinions, a series of policies will come out afterwards step by step, which will further optimize market-oriented mechanisms and also impose higher requirements on transformation of regulatory approaches. Xiao Gang, Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, pointed out that market rules must be observed in regulation of the capital market and the regulatory focus should be shifted from ex ante examination to ex post supervision. According to an officer with the SZSE, after the current adjustment, there might be situations where listed companies make supplements or rectifications to their disclosed information, and there may be vulnerabilities to market manipulation and infringements through unscrupulous abuse of the tool. In response, the SZSE will give play to market disciplines, pay attention to investors’ needs of information and mainly address irregularities questioned by media, complained about by investors and discovered during supervision. In so doing SZSE will guide those with disclosure obligations to take the initiatives to enhance corporate governance, standardize information disclosure, fulfill social responsibilities and improve quality of listed companies.   The adjustment has been effective as of 13 January, 2014.      

SZSE launched IPO Information Enquiry Special Zone, to Enhance IPO Information Disclosure Transparency
date:2014-1-6
In view of Opinion on Further Advancing Reform on IPO Mechanism recently formulated and promulgated by China Securities Regulatory Commission, and in order to further improve the supportive work regarding IPO information disclosure, SZSE, jointly with Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd., developed IPO Information Enquiry Special Zone. The Special Zone, which facilitates investors to enquire for IPO information, has been put into effect as of December 31, 2013. Investors can get access to Information Enquiry Special Zone via www.cninfo.com.cn as well as the website of SZSE.   The Special Zone provides the investors with the enquiry in three aspects: firstly, IPO issuer’s information is accessible on homepage of the Special Zone. Information such as the number and names of IPO companies on the SME Board and the ChiNext Board can be found on the ‘IPO Overview’, and offering price thereof is available on ‘IPO Table’. Secondly, stipulated IPO disclosed information such as prospectus is put on the ‘Information Disclosure’ page accessible for investors. Thirdly, information on issuers' price enquiry is presented on the 'Price Enquiry' page of the Special Zone. Price enquiry information includes such information required by the reform on mechanism of IPO as the number of investors and placement targets participated in the price enquiry, median and weighted average of quoted prices, median and weighted average of quoted prices from public fund, offering price and P/E etc..   Further more, the Special Zone offers the link to SZSE Off-line Placement Electronic Platform (EIPO System). Investors can get access to SZSE EIPO System via the link, and accordingly enquire more information on price enquiry.   As follow-up, SZSE will continue to integrate information on IPO regulations and investors Q&A service, which will be also presented on the IPO Special Zone. By virtue of the Special Zone, SZSE not only provide investors with ‘one-stop’ IPO information enquiry service, but also further strengthen the market binding with the opening information.

Stock Market Holiday Schedule (2014)
date:2013-12-26
1. New Year:  The market will close on 1 January (Wednesday) and resume trading on 2 January (Thursday).   2. Spring Festival: The market will close from 31 January (Friday) to 6 February (Thursday), and resume trading on 7 February (Friday).   3. Qingming Festival:  The market will close from 5 April (Saturday) to 7 April (Monday), and resume trading on 8 April (Tuesday).   4. Labour Day: The market will close from 1 May (Thursday) to 3 May (Saturday). The market will resume trading on 5 May (Monday).   5. Dragon Boat Festival:  The market will close from 31 May (Saturday) to 2 June (Monday), and resume trading on 3 June (Tuesday).   6. Mid-Autumn Festival: The market will close from 6 September (Saturday) to 8 September (Monday), and resume trading on 9 September (Tuesday).   7. National Day:  The market will close from 1 October (Wednesday) to 7 October (Tuesday), and resume trading on 8 October (Wednesday).   * The market will close on weekends. * For clearing and settlement arrangement, please refer to the notice of the China Securities Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd.

Q&As on the Implementation Rules for Offline Placement of IPO Shares on Shenzhen Market and the Implementation Measures for Online Subscription for IPO Shares According to Market Value on Shenzhen Market
date:2013-12-26
On 13 December, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited (CSD&C) jointly released the Implementation Measures for Online Subscription of IPO Shares according to Market Value on the Shenzhen Market (the “Online Offering Measures”) and the Implementation Rules for Offline Placement of IPO Shares on the Shenzhen Market (the “Offline Placement Rules”). In an interview with press, a senior officer of the SZSE answered questions regarding the two documents.   Q1: Please give a brief description of the background and application scope of the two documents.   A: Recently, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (the “CSRC”) made a massive reform of the IPO system by issuing the Opinions on Further Advancing the Reform of the IPO System (the “Reform Opinions”) and the amended Management Measures for Securities Offering and Underwriting. To implement the reform requirements, we made a thorough overhaul of our existing Online Offering Measures and Offline Placement Rules.   The Offline Placement Rules apply to offline share placement conducted through relevant platforms of SZSE and CSD&C, which covers book-building, pricing, offline subscription, placement and etc. Only investors who meet the requirements publicized by the lead underwriter can participate in offline placement.   The Online Offering Measures apply to online share subscription at the pre-determined issue price through the SZSE’s trading system. Any investor holding SZSE-listed A-shares worth no less than RMB 10,000 in market value can participate in online subscription. However, offline placement participants are prohibited from participating in online subscription of the same stock.   Q2: What amendments are made to the Offline Placement Rules?   A: Firstly, under Article 1, Section IV of the Reform Opinions, the lead underwriter is given discretion to allot new shares. As a result, we introduced a two-way selection and verification process between the lead underwriter and investors before initial book-building. However, without a justifiable reason, the lead underwriter should not refuse any investor who meets the pre-publicized requirements for participation in the book-building.   Secondly, under Article 5, Section I of the Reform Opinions, the quantity of new shares will be adjusted based on the price determined through book-building, so we added a new requirement that investors should fill out the subscription form again to submit their subscription quantities, etc. on the date of subscription.   Thirdly, the Reform Opinions imposed stricter disclosure requirements for the processes of pricing and placement, so we waived the requirement that the lead underwriter files investors’ quotations with the CSRC. Meanwhile, we extended the deadline for book-building for one day to 15: 00 on T-2 Day, which shortened the time period between the book-building deadline and the subscription date and thus improved the efficiency of share offering.   Fourthly, the Management Measures for Securities Offering and Underwriting removed the requirement that book-building participants should register with the Securities Association of China (SAC). Therefore, in the future, investors only need to complete registration on the offline placement electronic platform through the lead underwriter and update their information by themselves.   Q3: What amendments are made to the Online Offering Measures?   A: In order to fully protect the interests of mid- and small-cap investors, the Reform Opinions and the Management Measures for Securities Offering and Underwriting require that only investors holding a specified number of non-restricted shares can use funds to participate in online subscription and, moreover, there is a ceiling on the quantity that an investor can subscribe to. Therefore, the Online Offering Measures were amended as follows:   Firstly, online offering must be based on the market value already in holding. Online offering based on the market value already held means that only an investor holding free floating A-shares on the Shenzhen market worth RMB 10, 000 or more with sufficient funds can participate in online subscription for IPO shares. This combines the merits of pure share placement proportionate to the market value and subscription based upon pre-submitted funds. Specifically, it depends on the market value of the shares the investor has already held to determine whether he or she can participate in online offering and how many IPO shares he or she can subscribe to; if the investor is eligible for subscription, he or she must pre-deposit sufficient funds in the securities account before making any valid subscription.      Secondly, a ceiling is imposed on the subscription quantity. To avoid the situation where too many IPO shares are allocated to an investor with massive holdings, the quantity that an investor can subscribe to through online subscription should not exceed an upper limit specified by the lead underwriter or one thousandth of the initial online offering. Any excessive subscription requests will be blocked by the trading system.   Thirdly, restrictions are released for investors with multiple accounts. In order to prevent investors with capital advantages from subscribing through multiple securities accounts, one investor is only allowed to use one securities account to make one subscription and any other subscriptions will be cancelled automatically.   Q4: How“subscription based on market value”is conducted?   A: There are five points concerning the new subscription method that worth special attention:   Firstly, the scope of securities whose market value can be included for calculation is as follows. Securities whose market value can be included for calculation refer to free-floating A-shares on Shenzhen market (including the Main Board, SME Board and ChiNext) held by investors, including securities under the accounts of margin trading and securities lending and refinancing through other securities lenders. The market values of B- shares, mutual funds, bonds and other non-tradable A- shares are excluded from calculation.   Secondly, how do we aggregate market value? If an investors has more than one securities accounts, the market value of all the securities accounts should be aggregated. The principle to be followed in determining whether multiple securities accounts are owned by the same investor is to see whether the “the name of account holder” and “the I.D. number of the valid identity document” are identical.   The market value of a client’s margin trading and securities lending credit account should be added to the market value held on his/her own. The market value held within the accounts of refinancing through other securities lenders should also be added to the market value held by the securities company.   The market value of asset management special accounts, enterprise annuity accounts and repo transactions special accounts should be calculated separately as securities account.   Thirdly, how do we determine maximum subscription quantity? An investor’s maximum subscription quantity is determined by the market value he held at the end of the day (T-2) , which means two trading days before the online subscription date (T day). Subscription is only available to investors holding market value of RMB 10,000 or more. Each RMB 5,000 is allocated to one subscription unit and any odd amount less than RMB 5,000 is ignored. Investors can subscribe to 500 shares with one subscription unit. The subscription quantity should be 500 shares or the integral multiples of 500 shares. The maximum subscription quantity is subject to the subscription ceiling.   Fourthly, market value can be calculated repeatedly if an investor subscribes for IPO shares of more than one company on the same day. If more than one company launches online offering of their IPO shares on the same day, the market value determined according to the above-mentioned methods can be used repeatedly for subscription for these IPO shares respectively.   Fifthly, subscription participants must pre-deposit sufficient funds in their accounts. Investors must deposit full subscription amount in the capital accounts before making subscription orders. Any subscription without providing sufficient funds will be deemed invalid.     The following is an example of the subscription process:   T day is online subscription day for both Company X and Company Y on SZSE. The online offering amounts for Company X and Yare 50 million shares and 20 million shares respectively. The subscription ceilings set by lead underwriters are 50,000 shares and 20,000 shares respectively. Both their issue prices are set at RMB 10.   1. Calculating market value and maximum subscription quantity   After the close of the T-2 day, an investor Z holds free-floating A- shares on Shenzhen market worth RMB 209,000 in market value. So Z can be allocated 41 subscription units, which means that his maximum subscription quantity is: 41×500=20,500 new shares. Z’s maximum subscription quantity (20,500) is lower than the subscription ceiling of Company X (50,000 shares) but higher than that of Company Y (20,000 shares). So Z can subscribe to 20,500 shares of X and 20,000 shares of Y at the most. The portion in excess of the ceiling is invalid.   2. Offering and subscription   On the T day, Z deposits RMB 40,5000 in the capital account, then subscribes for 20,500 shares of X and 20,000 shares of Y on SZSE during trading hours.   3. Allocation of numbers   On the T+1 day, CSD&C freezes and verifies the subscription amount and confirms the total valid subscription amount according to the actual amount in the capital account. Each valid subscription is numbered continuously according to subscription time, with each subscription unit assigned one number. In the case of Z, both his subscriptions for X and Y are valid, which include 41 and 40 subscription units respectively. As a result, he is assigned 41 subscription numbers for Company X and 40 subscription numbers for Company Y. After that, the lead underwriter will decide based on the total subscription amount whether a lot drawing is necessary .   Q5: What is the next step for SZSE in light of the reform initiatives in the two documents?   A: We are planning our future work in line with the on-going reforms, including:   Firstly, we will amend relevant guides and manuals. We will amend and publish the SZSE Share Offering and Listing Guide for Initial Public Offerings and Users’ Manual for Offline Placement Electronic Platform (both the version for lead underwriters and the version for investors).   Secondly, we will prepare for digital certificates. Lead underwriters and investors participating in offline placement are required to apply for a digital certificate for the electronic offline placement platform. We are in preparation and will publish a notice very soon.    Thirdly, we will organize relevant training programmes. Given the significant changes in the amended offering process, we will provide special training to lead underwriters to help them further understand relevant rules, business processes, key points for system operation, etc. with an aim to ensure the smooth and sound implementation of IPO reform.    

Q&As on Trading Mechanisms for IPO Shares on First Trading Day
date:2013-12-26
The Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) recently released the Circular on Issues Concerning Temporary Trading Halt of IPO Shares on the First Trading Day (the “Circular”). In an interview with reporters, a senior officer of the SZSE answered questions regarding market concerns.   Q: Please brief on the background of the Circular   A: On 30 November, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (the “CSRC”) issued the Opinions on Further Advancing the Reform of IPO System (the “Opinions”), which require stock exchanges “to improve the opening price formation mechanism for IPO shares on their first trading day and the trading mechanisms for IPO shares at the initial stage of their listing, establish a trading halt system for first trading day benchmarked to the issue price, and tighten control of speculation on IPO shares.” To implement the CSRC’s requirements and in response to IPO reform, we amended the trading mechanisms for IPO shares on their first trading day accordingly and released the Circular.   Over-speculation over IPO shares at the initial stage of listing will not only affect the reasonable pricing of IPO shares, but also brings hidden troubles to the movement of IPO shares after listing. A large amount of our empirical data indicates that small- and mid-cap investors are the most vulnerable among IPO share speculators. They had a gambling mind when snapping up IPO shares only to find themselves outsmarted. For example, by far, 56.2% of accounts with purchase of IPO shares on the first trading day in 2012 have proven to be in losses, with an average loss of RMB 5900 per account, or an average loss rate of 10% per account.   The Circular, which adjusted and improved the opening price formation mechanism for IPO shares on their first trading day, is mainly designed to prevent excessive price advances of IPO shares upon market opening on their first trading day, stem over-speculation and facilitate the balanced, coordinated and sound development of primary and secondary markets.   Q: As part of the efforts to optimize trading mechanisms for IPO shares on their first trading day, what are the main contents of the Circular?   A: In response to IPO reform, we have been exploring and reforming the trading mechanisms for IPO shares on their first trading day since 2005 and made some achievements. On this occasion, we further adjusted the opening price formation mechanism and temporary trading halt mechanism for IPO shares on their first trading day according to the requirements of the Opinions and taking into account the new situations and characteristics of IPO shares at the initial stage of their listing that arose following the IPO reform last year.   The main contents of the Circular include four parts:   1. The valid price range for the opening auction. The valid price range during the opening call auction for IPO shares on their first trading day is adjusted to 20% above or below the issue price. If no opening price is generated from the call auction, the first execution price during the continuous auction will be taken as the opening price.   2. The closing price formation mechanism. A closing call pricing period will run from 14:57 to 15:00 for IPO shares on their first trading day, i.e., a one-time centralized matching of buy and sell orders in the central order book whose quotation prices are set at the last traded price. During the closing call pricing period, investors can either place or cancel their orders.   The closing price of IPO shares on their first trading day is the execution price generated from the closing call pricing. In the absence of any trade during the closing call pricing period, the closing price is the trading volume-weighted average price of all the trades of such security during the one minute before the last trade (including the last trade) on that day.   3. Thresholds for temporary trading halt. The former two fluctuation marks of 10% and 20% still apply as triggers for trading halt on the first trading day of IPO shares. If price fluctuation during intraday trading reaches or exceeds 10% above or below the opening price for the first time, trading will be suspended for one hour; if price fluctuation during intraday trading reaches or exceeds 20% above or below the opening price for the first time, trading will be suspended till 14:57. During temporary suspension, investors can either place or cancel their orders.   4. Operational mechanism after trade resumption. Upon trade resumption, a call pricing will be conducted for all the accepted orders, i.e., a one-time centralized matching of buy and sell orders in the central order book whose quotation prices are set at the last traded price.   If the temporary trading halt extends beyond 14:57, trading will be resumed at 14:57 for call pricing, then the closing call pricing will be followed.   Q: What amendments are made to the former rules?   A: Compared with Sections 2.4.2, 3.3.1, 3.4.3, 4.2.3, 4.3.4 and 4.3.6 of SZSE Trading Rules (Revised in November 2013) (the “Trading Rules”), the Circular made amendments in the following four aspects:   1. Narrowing the valid price range for the opening call auction. Under the existing Trading Rules, the valid price range during the opening call auction on the first trading day of IPO shares is within 900% of the issue price. With an eye to avoiding sharp price fluctuations of IPO shares after market opening on their first trading day as well as consequential over-speculation, we changed the valid price range to 20% above or below the issue price.   2. The former turnover rate trigger was cancelled. In order to maximize trading continuity and minimize suspension frequency, the Circular scrapped the turnover rate as a trigger for trading halt.   3. The closing call auction is changed to closing call pricing. Under the existing Trading Rules, the closing call auction for IPO shares runs from 14:57 to 15:00 on their first trading day and the valid price range is 10% above or below the last traded price. After the amendment, a closing call pricing is adopted between 14:57 to 15:00, i.e., a one-time centralized matching on the principles of time priority of buy and sell orders whose quotation prices are set at the last traded price before 14:57. If the trading halt extends to 14:57, the last traded price before 14:57 is the last traded price prior to the suspension.   It should be noted that during the closing call pricing period, centralized matching of orders is only limited to orders whose prices are set at the last traded price and that other orders will be regarded as invalid. For the convenience of investors, the Circular provides that orders can either be placed or cancelled during such period.   4. The call auction after trading resumption is changed to call pricing. Similar to the closing period, the Circular amended the existing call auction upon trading resumption after temporary trading halt of IPO shares on the their first trading day to call pricing, i.e., a one-time centralized matching on the principles of time priority of buy and sell orders accepted during trading suspension whose prices are set at the last traded price prior to the suspension. Any order placed during the suspension period whose price is other than the last traded price is not allowed to participate in the call pricing upon trading resumption.   It is important to note that the Circular applies only to the first day trading of IPO shares. The trading of securities that are not subject to the daily price limit, such as the first day trading of securities upon resumption of listing, is still governed by the existing Trading Rules.   In light of the significant amendments and changes in the Circular, we will also publish interpretive articles in our investor education column and we hope that investors pay close attention to and fully understand the Circular.   A：What measures are in place to tighten control of IPO share speculation as required by the Circular?   A: We adhere to the principle of regulation by law, promote risk alert education, strengthen supervision of misconduct, closely monitor abnormal trading practices, crack down on suspected market manipulation and other malfeasances and guide investors for rational participation in trading of IPO shares. Firstly, we launched a special program called “Further Curbing First-day Speculation”. In June this year, we released the Guidelines on Risk Alerts by Members to Their Clients Regarding Securities with High Risk to help members sort out the accounts actively engaged in speculation of IPO shares and those operating in the red and establish differentiated management and risk alert mechanisms for IPO speculation accounts according to the different characteristics of clients. Secondly, we conducted investor education activities through multiple channels and forms. This year, through various forms such as “Open House Programmes” for Investors to make visits to securities firms, we urged members to intensify efforts in investor education on trading risk. We also launched an interactive column called “Prevention of Over-speculation of IPO Shares on First Trading Day” to allow investors to experience through simulated trading the risk of over-speculation of IPO shares. Thirdly, stepping up monitoring of trading in IPO shares and making self-regulatory measures more targeted. In response to abnormal trading behaviors in the initial stage of listing, we optimized monitoring indicators and enhanced the intelligent level of monitoring by developing a special module for monitoring abnormal trading of IPO shares, with our focus on monitoring the conduct of affecting share prices using the capital advantage.    

SZSE to launch Interview on ‘Supporting Rules on IPO on Shenzhen Market’ via Micro-blogs
date:2013-12-17
SZSE is to launch interview regarding ‘Supporting Rules on IPO on Shenzhen Market’ via Sina and QQ micro-blogs from 15:30 to 16:30 on December 17, 2013.   In order to practice the requirement of IPO mechanism reform, SZSE has amended and released the Implementation Rules on IPO Off-line Placement on Shenzhen Market, Implementation Measures on IPO On-line Subscription according to Market Value. Meanwhile, SZSE also adjusted the trading mechanism on first trading day of IPO, and issued Circular on Matters Regarding Temporary Suspension System on the First Trading Day of IPO.   Relevant principal from SZSE expressed SZSE’s hope that questions from netizens could be answered, and market participants’ understanding on the new rules could be deepened through such interview via micro-blog.    Website of the interview via Sina Micro-blog: http://talk.weibo.com/ft/2013121711299   Website of the interview via QQ Micro-blog: http://zhibo.qq.com/mbask/8936/index.html

SuZhou Leading Index Issued
date:2013-12-12
Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. and Soochow Securities Co., Ltd jointly announced to issue SuZhou Leading Index (Code: 399410, Abbreviation: SuZhou Leading) on December 12, 2013. The index takes December 30, 2011 as the base day and 1000 point as the base point.   A noted historic and cultural city as it is, Suzhou is an economic center as well, with its city GDP ranking the 5th in China. Its profound cultural and affluent economic foundation has nurtured a batch of excellent public companies. As of the end of November, 2013, there are up to 65 Suzhou-based companies listed on A-stock market, with the total market capitalization reaching CNY283.7 billion. What is more, Suzhou has plenty reservation of companies ready to go public.   By referencing such indicators as market capitalization representativeness, stock liquidity, and financial fundamentals, 30 Suzhou-based A-stock public companies are selected to compile SuZhou Leading Index, which not only offer the market a reference that reflect the overall operation of Suzhou-based public companies, but also provide the investors with indexation investment target that share Shzhou’s economic development fruit. According to the statistics, from the base day to the end of November 2013, the accumulative return of SuZhou Leading Index reaches 40.69%. Comparing with that of Shanghai and Shenzhen markets benchmark index CNINFO 1000, which is 13.72% over the same period, the accumulative return of SuZhou Leading Index exceeds by 26.97%.   The ‘Sothern Suzhou Mode’ 20 years ago has transformed to the current foreign-investment-dominated ‘Suzhou Economy’, and Suzhou will take on a ‘new journey of transformation and upgrading’ in the future, transforming from export-oriented economy to innovation economy. The transformation and upgrading of Suzhou economy will inject new vigor into SuZhou Leading Index.   More specific material on SuZhou Leading Index can be found on the website of CNI Index （www.cnindex.com.cn）.  

Adjustment to the Sample Stocks for SZSE Component Index, SZSE SME Index and SZSE ChiNext Index and other Indices
date:2013-12-9
On December 9, 2013, Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. jointly announced to make regular adjustment, according the indices compiling rules, to the sample stocks for SZSE series indices, which include SZSE Component Index, SZSE SME Index, SZSE ChiNext Index and SZSE 100 Index, etc. . Meanwhile, Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. announced to make regular adjustment to the sample stocks for CNINFO 100 Index and other cross-market indices. The adjustment will become effective as of the first trading day of January, 2014.   4 stocks will be adjusted for the sample stocks of SZSE Component Index, with Dahua Technology, Jereh Group, BYD, Originwater to be swapped in as sample stocks, whereas Nonfemet, Jidong Cement, YCC, and YTL to be swapped out of sample stocks; 10 stocks will be adjusted for the sample stocks of SZSE SME Index, with Coship Electronics, Bewinner Communications and other 8 stocks to be swapped in, whereas Jinggong Science, Aviation Precision Machinery and other 8 sample stocks to be swapped out; 7 stocks will be adjusted for the sample stocks of SZSE ChiNext Index, with Savings, Egova and other 5 stocks to be swapped in, whereas Dayu Water-saving, Changelight and other 5 stocks to be swapped out; 10 stocks will be adjusted for the sample stocks of SZSE 100 Index, with such stocks as Xingrong Investment, GLGF, etc. to be swapped in, whereas such stocks as SEIC, Liaotong Chemicals to be swapped out. 10 stocks will be adjusted for the sample of CNINFO 100 Index, with Changan Automobile, BOE and other 8 stocks to be swapped in, while TLYS, Changyu and other 8 sample stocks to be swapped out.   Adjustment to the sample of core indices of Shenzhen Market exhibits two eminent features. Firstly, the indices are more representative of boards, with more companies listed on ChiNext and SME boards to be included in the core indices of Shenzhen Market. Originwater, for example, becomes the first ChiNext stock to be included in SZSE Component Index. Secondly, the change in indices industries structure is in correspondence with the industrial transformation and upgrading trend in China, with the proportion of traditional manufacturing, mining, energy, raw material industries descending, whereas proportion of information technology, health care industries ascending. Four stocks to be swapped in SZSE Component Index are closely related to such strategic emerging industries as information technology, alternative energy, environment protection, and water resources, etc.  

SZSE Launched On-line Law Consultation and Solicitation for Suggestions on Rules on December 4th, National Law Publicity Day
date:2013-12-5
Upon the advent of 13th ‘December 4th’ National Law Publicity Day, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited Shenzhen Branch, Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. jointly launched an annual online law consultation with the theme ‘To Protect the Legal Rights and Interests of Small and Medium Investors, to Build Simplified and Transparent Business Rules and Regulation System’. Unlike activities of the previous years, SZSE takes the advantage of online interaction platform of http://www.p5w.net/ for not only law and rule consultation service, but also solicitation for advice and suggestions on business rules from the market bodies. SZSE, which based on the market and open for market suggestions, emphasizes the scientific nature and democracy of rules formulation in the process of promoting rule system development.   A relevant principal from SZSE expressed that protecting investors’ legal rights and interests, especially small and medium investors’, was SZSE’s mission. Under the leadership and guidance of China Securities Regulatory Commission, SZSE will deepen the protection of small and medium investors rights and interests centering on the following 6 aspects: Firstly, SZSE, footing on the experience of frontline supervision and service and education, will energetically take on the amendment to Law of Securities so as to push the development of multi-layer capital market onto a ‘rule-of-law-oriented, market-oriented and internationalized’ track with speed and order. Secondly, SZSE will optimize self-discipline supervision law enforcement mechanism, intensify its law enforcement, reinforce the afterwards accountability, and severely punish law violation and breach of commitment behaviors. Thirdly, SZSE will continue to improve the function of service platforms such as ‘Easy IR’, enhance the overall information disclosure express business, endeavor to reduce the information asymmetry, and safeguard the small and medium investors’ right to know. Fourthly, SZSE will optimize the system supply, and provide more flexible environment and condition for small and medium investors to participate in the corporate government before and during the event. Fifthly, SZSE will build a sound market-oriented compensation system, which is ‘investors are first compensated by the sponsor who later claim compensation from listed companies that are responsible for the loss’. This is a probe for a more efficient remedy way for small and medium investors. Sixthly, SZSE will launch law and regulation dissemination and training education activities in a persistent way. This is an effort to enhance the small and medium investors’ rick awareness and law compliance awareness and self-protection capability.   Meanwhile, along with law consultation activities, rule and regulation opinion solicitation was carried out via questionnaire investigation, ‘semi-annual appraisal’, ‘calling easy’ platform. Upon the requirement of ‘open-door activity’, ‘open-door legislation’, the solicitation is another important content of SZSE’s enforcement of the Party’s mass line education guidance. The solicitation is question-driven, question-oriented, people-oriented, driving the regulation towards simpler and more efficient, more understandable and quality–oriented system.   As introduced by relevant principal from SZSE, during the 2-hour interaction, law dissemination team have answered 260 hot-spot questions from investors, listed companies, securities companies, fund companies and other market main bodies. The questions cover areas such as links of securities transaction, SZSE’s products and services, and standard operation of listed company, etc..  Furthermore, the principal pointed out that, 50 advices and suggestions have been solicited during the activity. These solicited suggestions involves with information disclosure, corporate government, trading system, procedures refinement, and simplification, openness and updated speed of rules and regulation. SZSE will further systematically sort out and summarize the solicited suggestions, and launch the formulation, amendment and rationalization of relevant business rules and regulations at an appropriate time in order to further lay a solid system foundation for investor protection and multi-layer capital market development.

SZSE Launched its Official Micro Blogs, WeChat Account and New Brand Identification System
date:2013-12-3
On December 1, 2013, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) opened its official Micro blog accounts on People.com, Xinhua.com, Sina.com and qq.com respectively. Its official WeChat account also opened to the public. Meanwhile, SZSE amended its official logo after initiating a new brand identification system.   SZSE hoped to show its gratitude via internet to all walks of life for their support and attention throughout 23 years by launching its official Micro blogs and WeChat accounts on 1 December, the birthday of SZSE. SZSE started its trial operation on 1 December 1990. By virtue of internet-based platforms such as Micro blog and Wechat, SZSE takes efforts to further improve its openness and transparency, enhance its quality of service, collect opinion and wisdom and agglomerate market consensus. A SZSE representative indicated that the information disclosed by SZSE via its official Micro blogs and Wechat pages covers business rules, investors’ service, conference and training, market data and information updates.   SZSE’s Micro blog and its official website have adopted a new Logo, highlighting SZSE’s resolve in working in concerted effort with the market to ‘unleash the power of growth and support economic development’.   As introduced by the representative, the complete set of new brand identification system represents SZSE’s organizational vision. It will facilitate staff to better appreciate corporate positioning and enhance their sense of mission and responsibility. The new LOGO originated from the idea that ‘touching of two flints sparks light of innovation’. Whereas unleash the power of growth concisely expresses the core philosophy of SZSE brand. For years, SZSE has taken on the cause of building a multi-tiered capital market system in China, dedicated itself to serving the investors, supporting the enterprises development and driving economic transition and upgrading. Standing at the new starting point, SZSE will, as always, implement its core brand philosophy of “supporting SMEs, creating infinite opportunity, advancing independent innovation and serving Chinese economy” in every detail of supervision, innovation, fostering, service and reserve no efforts in maintaining an open, fair and just market environment.   Attachment: links of SZSE’s official Micro blogs and WeChat QR Code People Micro blog: http://t.people.com.cn/szse Xinhua Micro blog: http://t.home.news.cn/szse/preview Sina Micro blog : http://weibo.com/szse QQ Micro blog: http://weibo.com/szse WeChat QR Code

Supporting SME Development, Economic Restructuring and Upgrading
date:2013-11-13
-- Chairman Chen Dongzheng Spoke at the 53rd WFE Annual Conference on 29 October, 2013   On 29 October, 2013, Mr. Chen Dongzheng, Chairman of SZSE attended the 53rd annual conference of World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) in Mexico. Mr. Chen delivered a speech on Panel One on the subject of “Supporting SME Development, Economic Restructuring and Upgrading.” Focusing on the subject, Mr. Chen introduced the situation in China based on Chinese financial market and SZSE practical experience.   Mr. Chen shared the experience of Chinese capital market in supporting SMEs with international counterparts. SMEs are presented with good opportunities for development during economic restructuring and upgrading in China. Firstly, SMEs serve as a robust impetus for economic development, making important contributions to the nation’s GDP, innovative drive, tax revenue and employment. Secondly, the multi-tiered capital market strengthens service for SMEs. The SME Board and ChiNext Market provide important financing platforms for SMEs. Thirdly, capital market guides substantial private capital to invest in SMEs thanks to its unique market-oriented mechanism and guiding role. Fourthly, the development of SMEs enhances industrial upgrading and economic restructuring, and it helps to balance regional development. Fifthly, capital market promotes legal development and facilitates policy changes. Governments of different levels support SMEs via legislation and various supportive measures.   The experience of China’s capital market supporting SMEs has been drawing wide attention. Chairman Chen Dongzheng answered questions from the floor. He pointed out that in spite of promising prospects, the Chinese economy faces severe challenges. With accelerated the development, the multi-tiered capital market will more efficiently guide private investment, promote industrial upgrading and sustainable economic growth. In the process of integration of the world community, it requires mutual accomodation, concerted efforts, consensus building to solve problems and achieve win-win situation.   WFE is an international organization, including 57 stocks, futures and options exchanges. WFE annual conference is the global summit of the industry. The 53rd WFE annual conference was held by Mexican Stock Exchange, and the discussion covered economic policy and financial market, exchange strategies, regulation and innovation.

Seize the Opportunity for Reform, Strive to Lead Economic and Social Transition
date:2013-11-13
- Speech by Madam Song Liping, President & CEO of SZSE, at the 2013 Annual Meeting of China Association for Listed Companies   Distinguished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen,   Since the beginning of this year, in response to the complicated economic situation, the CPC Central Committee and the State Council have been unswervingly implementing policies to deepen reforms, consistently enable people to share in the benefits from reforms, galvanize market vitality and ballast social expectation. According third-quarter financial reports, the over 1,500 companies listed on three market sections saw operating income up by 12.5% and net profit up by 17%. Listed companies recorded double-digit growth in both revenue and profit. This result was achieved while the economy was experiencing accelerated restructuring and severe pain in resolving the issue of excess capacity. It reinforces our confidence and resolve to promote reform and structural adjustment.   The scarcest resource is the market demand in the course of implementing structural adjustment, economic transition and upgrading while maintaining stable growth. Recently, we worked together with China Association for Public Companies (CAPCO) to conduct on-site research. We came to understand that the Chinese economy in transition has great potential for market demand. If we choose to activate demand through adjustment of institutional mechanism, a lot of potential is to be tapped. For example, we should accelerate establishment of a unified national market and break local protectionism brought about by market segmentation. We should remove barriers protecting monopolistic interests and unleash energy for market competition. We should upgrade standards to promote creation of new markets and provide driving forces for industrial upgrading and fostering new industries. High degree of consensus has been achieved in this regard among relevant parties involved.   I would like to highlight two points that came to our attention during the research. First, there are market opportunities in convergence of the military and civilian sectors. In recent years, the state has continuously increased investment in defense technology, and the military industry has become an important arena for independent innovation. Accelerated military-civilian convergence will provide the military industry with fresh market power for sustainable development and enhance economic transition. On the one hand, civilian application of military technology can not only greatly lower cost of expensive research and development in military technology, but also maximize the technology spillover effect. Civilian application will certainly bring about economies of scale and improve stability and adaptability of new technologies in practical application. On the other hand, by steady opening up military supply market, more civilian companies with innovative technologies and products will gain access to new markets, spearheading technology upgrading of civilian companies. From a global perspective, leading military industrial giants are all listed companies. Many of our listed companies are also involved into the military industry. As the 18th CPC National Congress Report proposes, we must pursue a development approach in military and civilian convergence with Chinese characteristics. It will certainly help listed companies open new markets.   Second, I would like to talk about the development of overseas investment market. Through deep participation in the international division of labor, we have made overseas markets an important part in supporting China's economic growth for a long time. However, in recent years, as the international economy is rebalancing, in order to strengthen and expand international market share, we must place equal emphasis on exports and foreign investment, rather than solely relying on exports. We have noted that, since the latest international financial crisis, cross-border mergers and acquisitions (M&As) of SZSE-listed companies have witnessed substantial increase in number. As a new development meriting our attention and support, it showcases the strategic choice of domestic enterprises to take initiatives to adapt to changes in international market environment. However, surveys indicate that our foreign economic cooperation management system has not kept up with the changing demands. For example, listed companies constantly complained about the complicated and prolonged review procedure for overseas M&As. The present situation is that foreign investment, regardless of size, must be submitted for approval, which is likely to cause the company to miss the best timing for acquisition. In terms of promoting foreign investment, we lack specialized agencies like those in Japan and Korea, to deal with the problems widely shared by Chinese companies during the overseas M&As, or strengthen bilateral and multi-lateral cooperation in tax incentives and promote investment facilitation. Accelerating reform in this regard will surely win more market space for our listed companies.   We must promote reform in an all-round way and create a vast market for listed companies to bring its core competitiveness into full play. This not only greatly enhances the quality of economic growth, but also provides investment returns guarantee for investors. It will generate a far-reaching impact on economic and social transformation. SZSE is home to many companies in emerging industries and SMEs, so the structural and institutional obstacles faced by SZSE-listed companies are highly representative in their respective industries. We have built a “Home for Listed Companies” at the beginning of this year to strengthen communication and cooperation between listed companies, streamline industries one by one, to bridge listed companies and relative industry administrative authorities.   Deepening reform in an all-round way and accelerating economic transition and upgrading requires joint efforts from all parties. Listed companies, usually industry leaders with the advantage in capital, should have the capability and responsibility to play a leading role. They must adapt to the shift of government functions, further enhance self-regulatory awareness and cherish the hard-won market. Next, I would like to put forward five proposals for the chairmen present here:   First, enterprises should be the true innovators. The 18th CPC National Congress Report put forward building of an innovative country and a market-oriented technological innovation system led by enterprises with the integration of industries, academies and research institutes. Listed companies should be the leading force. On 30th September, The Political Bureau for the first time held a collective study session in Zhongguancun under the theme of implementing innovation-driven development strategy, and further put forward five tasks. With introduction of various measures such as deduction of five research and development cost items and other tax incentives, and leading innovative resources flow towards enterprises at a higher speed. All these measures have presented rare opportunities for listed companies. In the midst of the accelerated transformation, competitions between companies of different industries, regions and ownership forms have become fiercer. Companies are forced to increase input in innovative efforts in order to gain a firm foothold in the fierce competition. A recent survey jointly conducted by SZSE and China Association for Listed Companies on 1,256 SZSE-listed companies indicated that 49% of listed companies have place “increase input in innovation” as top priority in response to transformation and upgrading. The surveyed listed companies registered 23% and 15% year-on-year  increase in R&D input in the past two years respectively, a testimony to their willingness to enhance innovation.   Second, enterprise should reinforce the sense of self-discipline while applying financial instruments in the capital market. As reform in the capital market goes on, ex-ante examination and approval will be substantially reduced. Under such circumstance, listed companies should pay more attention to the balance of interests of different parties and strengthen the sense of self-discipline in fundraising. Companies should not seek instant success while sacrificing long term good. We have been promoting reforms to facilitate M&As. However, we noticed that some companies have abused the mechanism by applying differentiated valuation means in acquiring assets from related parties or disposing assets, which aroused suspicions among investors. It must be realized that if a small group of listed companies exercise poor self-discipline and the market’s self-restraint mechanism does not function as well as expected, the reform will be dragged down, ultimately harming the interest of listed companies as a whole.   Third, enterprises should strengthen investor relations management. To bring the market in full play in resources allocation means that market restrictions will be the most direct and major constraint for enterprises. To take full advantage of the capital market, listed companies must respect the capital market and value their investors. Only if and when listed companies manage investor relations in the same way as treating customers, can they win understanding and recognition from shareholders and investors and realize their capital market strategy. The Chinese capital market has skipped a few development stages that overseas mature markets have gone through. Listed companies were forced to deal with the investors from around the nation in all of a sudden; issuers, without the chance to choose shareholders in the first place, lacked experience and awareness in shareholder and investor relations management. It is time to make up for the gap, otherwise the advantage of capital market is likely to turn into disadvantages and hobble the development of companies.   Fourth, enterprises must emphasize on vocational training. Experts said that over the past three decades of economic growth, the lack of attention in cultivating high-caliber professional workforces has weakened competitiveness of Chinese companies. In reality, a workforce that masters the core technology of the company is a unique human capital and is few and far in between in the labor market. The company has to foster such talents by itself. A number of SZSE-listed companies, through collaboration with technical schools, have already initiated specialized training for their employees. In this regard, enterprises should intensify efforts to learn from manufacturing powerhouses such as Germany, to bring the most cutting-edge equipment, rather than the outdated ones, into vocational training. So that workers can keep abreast of the latest technologies. This is critical to the forming of corporate core competitiveness, as well as creating a positive social effect.   Fifth, enterprises should integrate themselves into local community development. Community participation and development is an important topic of corporate social responsibility. Since listed companies tend to have significant demonstration effect over SMEs in the neighborhood, they should take the initiative to assume social responsibility in business decision-making and operational activities. SZSE is committed to nurturing SMEs. Nearly 60% of SZSE-listed companies locate in county-level or prefectural-level areas, who witness their entire growth process from infancy to maturity. We must bear in mind that, first, listed companies should not default on loans of local SMEs in the same surviving community. We should base on contracts and create a good business ecosystem for local SMEs; second, listed companies should offer start-up companies their first orders and make contribution to the local entrepreneurial environment. Listed companies are the best performing enterprise groups. They should strive to bring the capital market’s role in promoting economic development and entrepreneurship into full play.   Standing at a new historical height, listed companies are faced with a rapidly and drastically changing environment. Systematic obstacles hindering development for a long time are expected to be eliminated. Meanwhile, new challenges and constraints that we have little knowledge about are confronting us head on. Accommodating such changes and accelerating transformation and upgrading creates new opportunities and challenges for listed companies. Firmly based on capital market platform, we will make joint efforts to seize opportunity where the system releases benefits for the people from the deepening of reform, and make contributions to economic restructuring and industrial upgrading and enhance the returns for investors.

Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Luxembourg Stock Exchange Signed Memorandum of Understanding
date:2013-11-11
A Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE)  delegation recently visited Luxembourg Stock Exchange (LuxSE) and a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between the two exchanges.  Representing LuxSE at the signing ceremony were Mr. Frank Wagener, Chairman of Board of Directors, and the CEO, Mr. Robert Scharfe. Ms. Yang Yongping, Chairperson of Supervisory Board of SZSE, attended the MoU-signing ceremony.   According to the MoU, the two parties will cooperate with each other in information exchange, personnel secondment, experience sharing and other areas to further communication, mutual understanding and cooperation.    LuxSE was founded in 1928, and it is well known for its independent and international listing expertise. LuxSE products include shares, warrants, bonds, depositary receipts and investment funds. The Luxembourg Stock Exchange lists 29,000 international bond issues representing 42% of total international bonds listed on EU markets. It also lists some 7,000 shares and units of investment funds in around twenty currencies, as well as 280 depositary receipts of issuers based in emerging markets.   SZSE is committed to enhancing SME financing through its multi-tiered capital market. In the last 10 years, SZSE has admitted 1056 SME issuers, raising USD 148.7 billion in IPO and further financing. SZSE has also developed high-yield SME Private Placement Bonds and asset-backed securities to diversify financing channels for SMEs. SZSE has been making efforts to further communication and cooperation with counterparts around the world. In addition to its MoU with LuxSE, SZSE has already signed 30 MoUs with international exchanges and financial institutions.  

Speech by Song Liping, President & CEO of SZSE, at the 6th China-Wuhan Finance Expo
date:2013-10-31
Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen,   Since the beginning of this year, following the policy line of further deepening reforms and promoting industrial upgrading set by the central government, we have witnessed positive changes. The endogenous power of economic growth has been strengthened, while market expectation and public confidence in accelerating economic development pattern transformation has gradually been formed. We have come to a new starting point where advancing financial reform innovations and supporting the real economy for a new leap becomes the focal issue, gaining wide attention and consideration from all social sectors.   SZSE is committed to building a multi-tiered capital market and serving high-tech SMEs. It is our conviction that, in accordance with the Guiding Opinions on Financial Support for Economic Restructuring and Industrial Upgrading, a tailor-made multi-tiered capital market is bound to play an irreplaceable role in serving the real economy in a higher level and broader range.   For example, the ChiNext Market has played an increasingly important role in boosting entrepreneurship and innovations. Since its inception, it has been dedicated to implementing innovation-driven strategies, cultivating emerging industries and fostering new competitive edges. In the next phase, we will align the systemic design of ChiNext with the nature and industrial trends of innovative and growth enterprises, in terms of market entry, refinancing, equity incentives. That will enable ChiNext to become the engine of the innovation-oriented capital allocation chain and guide more capital flows towards the innovative sectors. It will also cultivate an institutional environment and social climate inspiring and endorsing innovations, as well as create the solid social foundation and endogenous power conducive to the innovation-driven development.   In accelerating structural adjustment, a new wave of M&As have arrived as a series of measures gradually put in place to promote industry consolidation and resolve excessive capacity. The capital market is a highly efficient platform for market-driven M&As. We have observed that, as the CSRC recently made systematic deployment to expedite M&A activities, the market also pays great attention to M&A opportunities, and various M&A funds innovations adapting to M&A financing have sped up. To welcome this wave of M&As with deep industrial background, we have started preparations from two aspects. On one hand, along with daily supervision, we strengthen inspection of insider trading in M&A cases, enhance clue-discovering capabilities and perfect the regulatory measures of relative intermediaries, especially rating agencies with heavy impact on M&A pricing. On the other hand, revolving around the goal of adjusting industrial structure, we offer targeted guidance and services to companies to resolve their widespread concerns such as how to strengthen communication and cooperation within the industry, manage investor relationship during M&As, prevent insider trading and properly handle the corporate governance and equity structure. All this will bring capital market’s M&A function into full play.   In supporting small- and micro-sized enterprises, development in OTC markets have taken pace, filling the gaps and creating conditions to bridge the local economy. This helps improve the capital forming system from a micro perspective and construct the early-stage docking mechanism between science and finance. High cost resulted from severe information asymmetry explains the financing difficulties for small- and micro- businesses. The OTC markets, in essence, build a credibility information platform and solve the conundrum of information asymmetry for small- and micro- enterprises, by smoothing the information flow and converging credibility information of enterprises from all aspects. We learned from our survey that some regional equity exchanges have already made endeavors in this regard. In addition, more small companies get to enjoy the service of professional intermediaries and the capital and constraint mechanism brought about by mature professional investors, which in turn improves its accounting and governance. It will also help foster the missing equity culture and solidify the foundation for the sound development of the multi-tiered capital market. Because of this, we have taken an active part in building the regional equity exchanges. Thus far, 5 equity exchanges have been established with 2,835 quoted companies and RMB 3.03 billion of equity financing. The debenture financing instruments including equity-pledged repos and private placement bonds have raised a total of RMB 22.74 billion.   As of revitalizing stock assets, we strive to improve the innovation capability of asset backed securitization, expand the scope of underlying assets and explore diversified project models based on experience accumulated from the past pilot projects. Given the restriction of total credit scale, asset backed securitization must optimize credit structure and revitalize stock assets. Currently, nearly 26 asset backed securitization projects are under discussion and argumentation in SZSE. Besides the pre-existing underlying assets such as sewage treatment, highway tolls, theme park tickers, a new array of underlying assets have been added, including bank loans, lease assets, commercial property rent and new energy power supply revenue. Specially, the 2 Alibaba SAMP which just got listed on SZSE last month marked the first attempt of small-loan asset backed securitization. This product successfully revitalized Ali Finance’s RMB 1 billion worth of stock assets, therefore expanded its business. Next, we will continue to modify our trading mechanism, risk management and investor suitability program to pave way for the development of asset backed securitization.   China is an emerging economy as well as the world’s second largest economy. Such a fact determines the diversity and complexity of our economy. Labor-intensive, technology-intensive and capital-intensive industries have their respective advantages, but also face the pressure of transforming from “extensive” to “intensive” models and moving from “low-end” to “high-end” of the industrial chain. Thus, the term of economic transformation and upgrading contains rich implications in our country, including cultivation of emerging industries, transformation of traditional industries, and support for SMEs, which have vital bearings on the nation's economy and people's livelihood. In order to achieve economic transformation and upgrading in an all-round way, the multi-tiered capital market should grow in both market width and depth. After all these years’ exploration into the abovementioned issues, we expect to achieve breakthroughs this year. I believe that more innovations in service mechanism, tools and methodologies will spring up as the economic transformation and upgrading continuously deepens.   Wuhan is a traditional industrial base as well as a key city of science and education in central China. We noted that the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) and the Ministry of Transportation are working on the draft of Guiding Opinions on Forging New Economic Engine along the Yangtze River. It is actually the first time for administrative authorities to invigorate the Yangtze River Economic Belt, also an inevitable result of economic transformation and upgrading to tap growth potential of the inland. Owing to its strategic position in the Yangtzi River economic belt, Wuhan is poised to shoulder the arduous task of backing up the rise of the midland. SZSE and Wuhan have maintained close cooperation over the years, especially in recent years when the Donghu National Independent Innovation Exemplary Zone has supplied large numbers of listed companies for the SME Board and the ChiNext Market. It has fostered a reservoir of listing resources and accumulated rich experience in taking advantage of the multi-tiered capital market to expedite regional economic growth. Faced with new circumstances, we are committed to establishing a closer, more in-depth and comprehensive partnership between the multi-tiered capital market and Wuhan. We will provide support and guidance for regional financial reforms and innovations in Wuhan, thus weave an all-in-one financial service link to serve the real economy.   Thank you!  

Gold ETF Work Seminar Jointly Held by SZSE and SGE
date:2013-10-29
Gold ETF Work Seminar has been jointly held by Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and Shanghai Gold Exchange (SGX) on October 25, 2013. As innovative fund products that cross both markets of securities and gold, Gold ETF elevate the operation standard of ETF products in China, and offer a good type of investment products for numerous gold investors in China.   Xu Luode, Chairman of SGX expressed that, even though the debut of Gold ETF products in China came 10 years later than that of the first Gold ETF in the world, Gold ETF products in China were believed to surpass the latter in that China was the biggest gold producer, consumer as well as potential investor. With a steadier gold market and more sophisticated investors, the development space for Gold ETF products was immense. He pointed out that the launch of Gold ETF by SZSE would further propel the effective interaction among the markets of gold and securities nationwide, and financial markets in Shanghai and Shenzhen, was thus a beneficial probing deepening the financial reform in the country. As the biggest gold exchange in the world, SGX dedicated itself to the innovation of exchange products, diversified services, and association with gold exchanges in the major financial markets of the world. SGX would give a full play to the core pivot role in the gold market in China and constantly drive the sustainable and sound development of gold market in China.   Li Feng, Vice Manager of SZSE, denoted that it was SZSE’s mission to build multi-layer capital market. In the light of the strategic deploy of the Party Central Committee and State Council, and under the leadership of China Securities Regulatory Committee, multi-layer capital market witnessed a sustainable and healthy development in recent years. As of September, 2013, with the market capitalization of companies listed on SZSE reaches of CNY8.9 trillion, SZSE ranked the 11th among the exchanges in the world. With 1536 listing companies, SZSE ranked the 12th exchange in terms of the number of public companies in the world. The extent of capital market serving the real economy has been enhanced in dept and width. SZSE has been actively pushing forward the development of listed fund, and established an influential fund brand --Lefu Fund, exploiting the capital market in dept and width. At the beginning of this year, SZSE put forward the objective of forging fund supermarket. Currently, 295 funds have been listed on SZSE, managing CNY155.6 billion worth of assets in total. Fund product system that includes close-end fund, LOF, ETF, Classified Fund has been established, covering different types of investment. He signified that SZSE has been prioritizing the development of Gold ETF products, and launched research on Gold ETF long time ago. As an important type of product in the Fund Supermarket, Gold ETF extends the product layout of exchange fund market, connects markets of securities and gold. Being transparent, convenient, and with good liquidity, Gold ETF greatly facilitated the investors’ participation in gold investment. SZSE would further work with SGX and other bodies of the market to improve the trading mechanism of Gold ETF and enhance the product vitality.   Liu Xiaoyan, General Manager of E-fund Management Co., Ltd. expressed that the minimum investment unit for Gold ETF was 100 units, approximately 1 gram of gold, worth of CNY260, enjoyed a much lower investment threshold comparing with other gold investment products in China. Gold ETF, the trading fee of which is about one thousandth with tax exempt, enjoys the advantage of low-cost. Meanwhile, the gold contract of Gold ETF can be leased to reputable institutions for leasing income, making interests out of gold. Such product design makes E-fund Gold ETF even more attractive.   On the seminar, representatives from securities companies, gold producers and gold consuming companies and insurance companies and other institutions exchanged opinion substantially on such issues as market development, product design, investment strategy, and global experience of Gold ETF. The participants held that Gold ETF has long-term vitality in that it was not only the best gold investment choice for gold investors in China, but also an important type of asset allocation for institution investor in the long-run.  

Cyclical Sector and Defensive Sector Series Indices Issued
date:2013-10-29
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. recently announced to issue SZSE Cyclical Sector 50 Index (Code: 399670, Abbreviation: SZSE Cyclical 50), SZSE Defensive Sector 50 Index (Code: 399671, Abbreviation: SZSE Defensive 50), CNI Cyclical Sector 100 Index (Code: 399402, Abbreviation: Cyclical 100), and CNI Defensive Sector 100 Index (Code: 399403, Abbreviation: Defensive 100) on October 28, 2013. All 4 indices take December 31, 2004 as the base date and 1000 points as the base value.   Stocks with strongest cyclical feature and those with weakest cyclical features are selected from Shenzhen Market and A-share Market respectively to compose SZSE, CNI Cyclical and Defensive indices, which are immune to the disturbance of unsteady cyclical features, and which are prominent reflections of aggressive and defensive sectors. The definitions of Cyclical and Defensive sectors are based on CNINFO Sector Classification Standard. By virtue of demonstration statistics analysis of 10-years of observation range, and taking into consideration of the interactive relationships between industrial fundamentals of specific sectors and GDP Growth rate, sector stock yield and Leading Economic Indicators, sector stock yield and market benchmark index, sectors with remarkable features are defined as Cyclical Sector or Defensive Sector. Cyclical Sector include such sectors as Energy, Materials, Comprehensive Financial, Real estate, etc., while Defensive Sector include Food and Drinks, Health Care, Telecommunication and Utilities sectors, etc..   According to statistics, from the base day to the end of September, 2013, performances of SZSE Cyclical 50 and Cyclical 100 exhibit big elasticity, with their Beta coefficient being 1.12 and 1.07 respectively; Indices and macro-economy demonstrate strong interactive relationship, and cyclical features are prominent. Nevertheless, Beta coefficient of SZSE Defensive 50 and Defensive 100 are approximately smaller than 1, manifesting more steady fluctuation; two indices realize good long-term return, making accumulative return of 401.73%  and 342.87% respectively, and annualized return of 20.24% and18.54% respectively.   More specific material on the indices can be found on the website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and the website of CNI Index （www.cnindex.com.cn）.  

The 1st SME Exchangeable Private Placement Bonds Issued on SZSE
date:2013-10-25
Recently, the 1st SME exchangeable private placement bonds have been filed and issued on Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE). This is another kind of innovative product launched by the Exchange since SME private placement bonds launched last year.   According to Circular on Issues regarding the Pilot SME Exchangeable Private Placement Bonds promulgated by SZSE, SME Exchangeable Private Placement Bonds, privately placed by enterprises that fall into the category of Medium, Small or Micro-small Enterprises defined by Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, can be swapped for shares of public companies according to relevant stipulations within certain period by the bondholders.   The 1st SME private placement bonds have been issued by the third largest shareholder of Beijing Fuxing Xiaocheng Electronic Technology Stock Co., Ltd., a company listed on the ChiNext Board, with the issuing volume being CNY256.5 million, and coupon rate 6.7%. 10 million of Fuxing Xiaocheng’s shares and its fruits have been provided by the issuer for guarantee for the bondholders’ swap for shares and payment of bonds’ maturity and interest. Share swap period will come in 6 months after the completion of the private placement of bonds. The initiate swap price for the underlying shares is CNY25.65 per share. The bondholder can apply for share swap through the trading system of SZSE, with the swapped shares tradable on the next trading day.   According to relevant principal from SZSE, SME exchangeable private placement bonds are the upgraded version of SME private placement bonds, and share the same links with the latter in respect of filing procedure, investors’ appropriateness management and transferring services. SME exchangeable private placement bonds differentiate in the link of bond credibility enhancement, which requires issuers to pledge A-share of companies listed on SZSE held by issuers via the clearing system, so as to enable the bondholders to swap bond for shares of public companies pledged for credibility enhancement during the stipulated swap period. In respect of the specific product clause design, SME exchangeable private placement bonds inherit the market-oriented features of the private placement bonds, i.e. as long as the swap price for the underlying share is not lower than 90% of closing price 1 trading day before the issuing date and 90% of average closing price of the previous 20 trading days, and volume of pledged bonds are no less than bondholders’ exchangeable shares, the specific share swap price and adjustment mechanism thereof, ratio of shares pledged, maintaining guarantee ratio, and additional guarantee mechanism can be entirely subjected to the consultation of the main market bodies.  

Speech by Song Liping, President & CEO of SZSE, at the China Science Finance Forum 2013
date:2013-10-21
Distinguished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen,   On 30 September, President Xi Jinping delivered an important speech in Zhongguancun, re-emphasizing the significance and urgency of the innovation as a driving force. President Xi gave a comprehensive and in-depth elaboration on the “Five Focuses” such as focusing on promoting close integration between scientific innovation and socio-economic development. While President Xi’s speech is being studied by all social sectors, it bears practical significance to hold this conference themed “promoting science and technology finance” and facilitate cross-sector conversations and discussions on the latest issues of science technology finance. It also presents a great opportunity for us to learn and make progress together.   To implement the innovation-driven development strategy, an appropriate financial supporting system is in need. It has been a growing consensus that developing science technology finance is an important starting point as well as the focal point to establish such a system. As our forum organizer mentioned, “We are in a window period where technology and finance are experiencing an accelerated growth.” During this window period, integration of technology and finance enjoys a wider space, while new mechanisms, new types of business and new products bred from the science technology practice abound and boom.   In 2004, SZSE and the Torch Center or Ministry of Science and Technology jointly launched the growth-assistance roadmap for high-tech SMEs to nurture technology SMEs in high-tech zones as listing resources. With public support and active participation, the program has been running for ten years with continuously-expanded content. It has yielded fruitful results by providing strong support to the establishment and development of the SME board and ChiNext Market. Looking back, even though the concept of “science technology finance” did not exist at that time, the implementation of the roadmap could be regarded as a systemic and in-depth approach of science technology finance relying on capital market. This year, facing emerging opportunities presented by fast-growing science technology finance, we have been considering updating the roadmap to the “2.0 version” in order to meet new requirements of innovation-driven development strategy. Currently the detailed plan of the “2.0 version” is in the process of communication and argumentation. However, in the earlier stage of analysis and argumentation, we have already accumulated some knowledge and judgment regarding the development of science technology finance, which could be applied to the design and implementation of the “2.0 version” in various ways. We would like to take this opportunity to share our thoughts with you, and hopefully receive your comments and suggestions. This will also be our invitation extended to you to join the “2.0 version”.   First, the real economy foundation has solidified, and the science technology finance has huge potential for accelerated development. By surveying high-tech zones and listed companies, we have deeply felt that, the tremendous potential of scientific innovation has been unleashing at an increasing pace. The overall and average strengths of innovative enterprises have increased and emerging industries have gained momentum for a breakthrough. From a demand perspective, it calls for a powerful endogenous driving force to boost the development of science technology finance. On the other hand, perhaps what’s more important is that the spirits of innovation and entrepreneurship have taken roots in our society, especially in the youth. This is exactly the goal and basis for developing science technology finance. Last month, a documentary named “Business Opportunities at the Fingertip” was aired on CCTV. It shows that while developing mobile Internet technology, entrepreneurs, including many young college students, have demonstrated remarkable wisdom and persistence, which is very touching and also bolster our confidence in scientific innovation and science technology finance.   Second, demand in the science technology finance service has become more individualized and diversified; accordingly, our service supply should be more refined and inclusive. Compared vertically, enterprises at different stages of growth and different positions of the industrial links have different appetites for financial service. For instance, while a start-up is hungry of capital support, a listed company may place more emphasis on the highly efficient merger and acquisition platform. In horizontal comparison, enterprises in different sectors may contain different needs. Therefore we should set varied priorities in meeting their needs. For example, securitization is more applicable to environmental conservation industry, but not medical industry. In light of the tendency among companies towards diversified and individualized financial services requirements, SZSE has begun organizing communication and training programs among enterprises since last year. The M&A communication and training program in medical industry held earlier this year was very well received. We are also building the Home for SMEs, hoping to provide an interactive platform enabling intensified communication for enterprises and entrepreneurs.   Third, as market grows with enriched products and increased platforms for science technology finance service, market participants should make concerted effort for a virtuous cycle. To some extent, science technology finance is becoming a relatively independent productive service industry. Banks, securities firms, insurance companies and financial agencies of new forms offer an increasing number of financial products tailored to science technology sector, including credit products, equity products, fixed income products and securitization products. Great expansion is also taking place in M&As, intellectual property trading and other new services. More and more financial platforms are serving the science technology sector, including exchanges, OTC markets, VC markets and incubators with financing functions. Like other industries, expansion of financial market scale goes hand in hand with division of labor, which in turn helps unleash the market potential. However, in order to form a virtuous cycle, cooperation based on division of labor carries great significance. For example, companies’ credit information platform is key infrastructure in promoting the coverage of financial services to science technology sector and enhancing pricing practice of intermediaries. Though market participants have been seeking a joint force for a while, “Information Island” still exists.   Fourth, a good prospect unfolds for solving financial difficulties by technological means, while Internet finance offers opportunities for further development of science technology finance. Internet finance, along with new methods and models of financial data and information processing based on new technologies, drives down the traditional financial transaction cost and brings about new trading methods and risk management means. Relying on the development of Internet finance, financial sector can enhance its serving capacity and inclusiveness, and mobilizing more financial resources to meet the increasingly decentralized and diversified financial service needs in larger numbers. While developing science technology finance, the abovementioned issues have always topped the agenda. Internet finance, which is now in an “emerging and ascendant” trend, offers good solutions. SZSE has been actively engaged in observations and practice of this regard. We are now considering employment of big data technology to tackle problems encountered in market cultivation and market surveillance. Besides, the listing of Alibaba's two microfinance asset securitization products on 18 September is also considered SZSE’s first cooperation with the Internet finance industry. The answer to how far Internet finance can go lies in practice. But what we can do now is to give enough space for Internet finance to grow. Take the amendment to the Securities Law as an example. We should take into necessary consideration Internet financing models such like “crowdfunding”.   Fifth, risks have become more prominent in developing science technology finance, and it is important to enhance our ability of risk allocation and risk management. For scientific innovation and its industrialization in general, it means fast growth and high yield. But for a specific project, it firstly associates with high risk and uncertainty. The fact constitutes a contradiction, which will become more prominent as the number of innovation activities increases and the level of innovation rises. A typical example is that, during the peak of the Internet bubble in the US, i.e., in the year of 2002 when starting a small business was most likely to succeed, only 2-3% venture companies survived with the rest perishing in their infancy. Similar examples can also be easily found in the development of mobile Internet in China. Innovation is a process of trial and error, and errors take costs. We should increase our tolerance for errors in the process of innovation, while at the same time, improve our risk allocation and risk management ability, thus to reduce the cost of errors and make better use of the limited financial resources. For the capital market, it is a problem which needs to be effectively solved in deepening science technology financial services. I believe this is a problem shared by all of us here.   I wish our meeting a great success, and that everyone learns something new through our communication.   Thank you!  

The 4th Session of Training Course for Board Secretary of ChiNext Board Follow-up Course Held by SZSE On Prevention and Control of Insider Trading and Speculation over Restructuring
date:2013-10-11
The 4th Session of Training Course for Board Secretary of ChiNext Board Follow-up Course was held by Shenzhen Stock Exchange（SZSE） by means of remote video and on-site training recently. About 550 board secretaries and securities affair representatives from companies listed on ChiNext Board attended the training.   The theme of the course--'Prevention and Control of Insider Trading and Speculation over Restructuring' has been highlighted in the training, which proved to pertinent. SZSE have long attached great importance to the prevention and control of insider trading, requiring public companies prevent insider trading and share holding management. Combining M&A Restructuring Diversified Review Courses Mechanism, which has currently gone into full effect, and phenomenon of blooming M&A on ChiNext Board and specific stock price fluctuation due to the restructuring this year, the course emphasized that prevention of speculation over restructuring was the top priority agenda of SZSE's supervision on M&A. According to the Diversified Review Courses Mechanism, the standard operation and honesty of the company are crucial factors contributing to the eligibility of public company’s M&A restructuring of going into the exemption or quick course. In the event of abnormal trading of the stock before the trading suspension due to the major restructuring, it will be difficult for the Company's M&A restructuring to go into the exemption or quick course. It was highly suggested that public company should be well aware of the current market situation, pay attention to the prevention and control of insider trading, standard operation and carry out the information disclosure obligation. It was also indicated that Public companies, on the one hand, should establish and standardize major information internal circulation procedure, reinforce the internal filtering, gathering, delivering, disclosing sensitive information mechanism, improve the procedure and mechanism of major information disclosure, and curb down the insider trading from the source; on the other hand, substantially disclose the quality of assets involved in M&A restructuring and various of influence of M&A restructuring on the public company in a honest, accurate and integrated manner. The public company should reveal related risk to the investors, in order to prevent irrational speculation on the market, materially protect the legitimate rights and interests of small and medium investors, and maintain the normal trading order.  

Developing Asset-backed Securitization, Revitalizing Stock Assets, and Serving the Real Economy
date:2013-9-30
Speech by Song Liping, President & CEO of SZSE, at the Listing Ceremony of Orient Securities Asset Management‘s Alibaba Special Asset Management Plan No. 1 & No. 2   Distinguished guests and colleagues,   Good morning!   I’m very pleased to join in this listing ceremony. On behalf of SZSE, I would like to congratulate you on the listing of Orient Securities’ Alibaba ABS plans and extend my warm welcome to all guests present today.   By integrating the Internet and financial service and forming a big data platform based on E-commerce, AliFinance provides efficient and flexible small loan services for small and micro enterprises. It is a successful attempt to expand financing channels for small and micro enterprises. Orient Securities Asset Management securitizes small loans of AliFinance, revitalizes their assets and continuously expands the scale of small loan business. It makes it possible to form a sustainable financial services model in support of small and micro enterprises. AliFinance and securitization of small loans are of exemplary significance for innovations in business models and the financial market. Currently we are at the crucial stage of economic transition where financial support plays a significant role. It remains an important task to solve the financing bottleneck for small and micro enterprises in order to push forward the economic transition and unleash the vitality of society. In Guiding Opinions on Financial Support for Economic Restructuring and Upgrading issued in July, the State Council made it clear that we should support small and micro business and promote economic restructuring by re-activating idle assets. The State Council Executive Meeting on 28th August further proposed of expanding the pilot program of asset-backed securities. Based on asset-backed securities, we should guide the flow of credit toward the week links and important areas of the economy, especially to rural economy and small and micro businesses. The listing of the Orient Securities Asset Management-Alibaba Special Asset Management Plan is a successful attempt. It not only serves as a breakthrough in securitization of micro-credit asset, but also opens up a new channel for the multi-tiered capital market to directly serve small and micro businesses and better support development in the real economy.   We must serve small and micro-sized enterprises, expand coverage of modern financial services to the benefit of the general public and strengthen weak links of economic and social development. The measures above are conducive to the general objective of achieving steady growth, increasing employment, adjusting economic structure and advancing reforms. It is also conducive to the realization of social justice, which also answers the call of our era. SZSE has been committed to building a multi-tiered capital market serving small and micro-sized enterprises, guiding flow of social capital, and advancing innovations of funds, private equity investments, micro-lending and bond management companies. We strive to build a comprehensive financial service system to support small and micro enterprises, thus to enhance the coverage, penetration and inclusiveness of the capital market to better serve the real economy.   SZSE has attached great importance to the innovative business of asset-backed securities and deemed it an important foundation for enhancing the multi-tiered capital market’s inclusiveness and service capacity. SZSE maintains a robust professional team and proactively seeks pilot project opportunities in collaboration with other participants in the industry. The successful listing of the Alibaba small loan ABS not only provides valuable experience, but also serves as an encouragement and testing stone for our previous efforts. SZSE has made sound preparations in trading mechanism, risk management and investor suitability management. We hope to work together with regulatory departments and relevant social sectors, expand the coverage and depth of ABS innovations and bring its role into full play in supporting the real economy.   At last, I wish a greater success in the launching and operation of Orient Securities Asset Management-Alibaba securitization products!   Thank you!    

The 23rd Session of Follow-up Training Course for Board of Secretaries of Main Board Held by SZSE
date:2013-9-27
Recently, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) held the 23rd session of follow-up training course for board secretaries of the main board by means of remote video. About 470 board secretaries and securities affair representatives from 228 listed companies attended the training, which centered around the theme of Implementation of Differentiated Review Procedures for Mergers and Acquisitions, and Prevention of Insider Trading and Market Speculation. Cases of insider trading and market speculation involved in M&A, the Differentiated Review Procedures for M&A, the Information Disclosure Express Practice, and ex-post interim report auditing were studied.   Principal of SZSE addressed in the opening ceremony. The Differentiated Review Procedures for Mergers and Acquisitions to be implemented on October 8 represents a significant move of the China Securities Regulatory Commission to promote the reform in capital market. It reflects the market-oriented reform ideas regarding the change of regulatory functions and reduction of administrative approval procedures. It is predictable that the domestic M&A market will brisk up along with the promulgation of relevant policies acts. More room will be given to the function and role of the capital market in its service to entity economy. This year, there’s continuous expansion in the number and scale of M&A activities on the main board, and the proportion of industry-integrated restructuring significantly increased. Based on the Measures for Administration of Major Assets Restructuring of Listed Companies, 18 companies listed on the SZSE main board concluded the restructuring activities, 28 companies disclosed restructuring schemes, and 13 companies entered into the stage of trading suspension due to the preparation of restructuring. The capital market has become an important platform for M&A activities, and listed companies are the backbones.  The blooming M&A activities are accompanied by an increasing trend of abnormal stock price fluctuations. Phenomenon of short-term speculative restructuring and financial restructuring has popped up in the market, which would affect the normal trading order to some extent and damage the legal rights and interests of investors, especially small and medium-cap investors. Specific to such situations, SZSE will on the one hand give continuing support to listed companies to improve their continuous operation ability and competition capacity through material M&A like industrial integration; on the other hand, SZSE will strengthen the supervision over disclosure of M&A information to curb insider trading and market speculation involved. Listed companies are required to make true, accurate and complete disclosure concerning the quality and profit prospects of relevant assets, and risk disclosure to investors. Besides, internal control is also required to intensify to prevent insider trading and blind market speculation.

Notice on Coordinating Arrangements of Differentiated Review Procedure of Mergers and Acquisitions
date:2013-9-18
Listed companies & financial advisors,   In accordance with the arrangement of adopting differentiated review procedures, based on the CSRC’s Implementation Measures on Adopting Differentiated Review Procedures for Mergers and Acquisitions, SZSE has made the following announcement:   First, the CSRC will officially introduce the differentiated review procedures for mergers and acquisitions applications by different listed companies on 8 October, 2013. Merger and acquisition applications that had been accepted by the CSRC before 8 October will still be subject to the existing review procedure.   Second, the differentiated merger and acquisition review procedure means that, while the CSRC is reviewing the major asset restructuring applications of listed companies such as issuing additional stocks to purchase assets, purchasing or selling major assets, mergers and separations, the CSRC will conditionally simplify and reduce the administrative approval procedures and carry out differentiated review arrangements based on companies’ information disclosure, standard operation situations, competence in practice of financial advisors and credit records of intermediaries and handling personnel, in combination with the national industrial policies and trading types.   The differentiated review procedure will be classified into 3 categories: exemption or fast review, normal review and prudential review. For restructuring projects entering the exemption or fast review, if it doesn’t involve share issuance, the CSRC will exempt the review procedure and directly approve the application. If it involves share issuance, the CSRC will adopt the fast review procedure and cancel the preview process, and directly pass the application to the merger and acquisition review committee.   Third, when listed companies disclose their major asset restructuring prospectus, all relevant departments should evaluate the restructuring item by item based on the principles of “publicized standard, transparent procedure, objective result and feasible procedure”.   CSRC regional offices and SZSE will be responsible for the evaluation of listed companies’ information disclosure and standard operation situation. The evaluation will be graded into four classes—A, B, C and D. A goes to the exemption or fast review category, B and C to the normal review category, while D to the prudential review category.   At the same time, if any of the following situations occurs, the listed company cannot enter the exemption or fast review category: 1) the company has received administrative punishment, administrative supervision measures or disciplinary sanction from the CSRC in the past three years; 2) the company is under investigation of the CSRC and the investigation has not yet been concluded; 3) the stock is suspended from listing or has issued a risk alert (including stocks tagged as *ST and ST); 4) the company is in the process of bankruptcy restructuring.   The Securities Association of China (SAC) is responsible for “financial advisor’s competence in practice”. Evaluation results are divided into A, B and C categories, while A refers to exemption/fast review, B refers to normal review and C refers to prudential review.     SZSE inquires the integrity record of intermediary institutions and the handling personnel. Institutions or personnel that are still under administrative penalty / regulation of the CSRC or disciplinary sanctions of the exchange shall not enter the category of exemption/fast review.   Financial advisors comment on “industrial policies and transaction types” and SZSE reexamines the comments. According to “Opinions of the State Council on Promoting Enterprise Merger and Restructuring” launched by the State Council and “Guiding Opinions on Accelerating the Merger and Reorganization of Enterprises in Key Industries” jointly promulgated by Ministry of Industrial and Information Technology (MIIT) and eleven other authorities, mergers and acquisitions involving "automobile, steel, cement, shipbuilding, electrolytic aluminum, rare earths, electronic information, pharmaceuticals and leading companies in industrialized agriculture" can be categorized into exemption/fast review if their transaction is made between/among companies in the same industry or upstream-downstream companies. However, back-door listing is excluded.   Fourth, according to the evaluation above, the final result is subject to one-vote veto, that is, the project goes to exemption/fast review if all sub-items belong to exemption/fast review, and the project goes to prudential review if any of the sub-items belongs to prudent review. Other projects go to the channel of normal review.   SZSE shall integrate sub-item evaluations and determines the review procedures according to the principles above, and reports the result to the CSRC. The CSRC will display the results publicly.   Fifth, to evaluate the information disclosure and standard operation of listed companies, SZSE directly adopts the results of information disclosure assessment in the most recent year. For newly listed companies without such assessment records, the evaluation goes to category B.   In the period between the end of the information disclosure assessment of the most recent year and the disclosure of major asset restructuring prospectus by listed companies, if the situations stipulated in Articles 17, 18 and 19 of the Promulgation Measures on Assessment of Information Disclosure of Listed Companies by Shenzhen Stock Exchange (Revised in 2013) occur, SZSE will make corresponding adjustments to the assessment results.   Sixth, for listed companies submitting application documents for major asset restructuring, they should offer information concerning the financial advisors, accounting firm, asset assessment firm, law firm, and other intermediaries engaging in the restructuring activity and the names and other required information of the handling personnel through the Column of “Listed Companies Business” of SZSE’s official website.   Seventh, for listed companies submitting application documents for major asset restructuring, they should simultaneously submit the written comments and opinions of the financial advisor related to the following issues: (A) whether the company or industry involved in the major asset restructuring belongs to the categories of “automobile, steel, cement, shipbuilding, electrolytic aluminum, rare earths, electronic information, pharmaceuticals and leading companies in industrialized agriculture” that are the key companies of industries supported for merger and restructuring as prescribed by Opinions of the State Council on Promoting Corporate Mergers and Restructuring and Guiding Opinions on Accelerating the Merger and Restructuring of Enterprises in Key Industries issued by the 12 ministries and commissions including the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology; (B) whether the restructuring is in the same industry or between the upstream or downstream companies, and whether the activity belongs to backdoor listing; (C) whether the restructuring involves the issuance of new shares; (D) whether the company involved is being investigated by CSRC and the investigation hasn’t concluded; (E) other requirements imposed by CSRC or SZSE.   Eighth, this notice shall come into effect from 8 October, 2013.   Quick view of Differentiated Review Procedure of Mergers and Acquisitions   Categories Exemption Fast Review Normal Review Prudential Review Conditions Meet all conditions below Meet all conditions below Other situations besides exemption /fast review and prudential review Meet one of the first three conditions 1 The CSRC regional offices’ evaluation on listed companies’ information disclosure and standard operation A A   D 2 The exchanges’ evaluation on listed companies’ information disclosure and standard operation A A   D 3 The SAC’s evaluation on financial advisor’s competence in practice A A   C 4 Whether institutions or handling personnel are still under administrative penalty/regulation of the CSRC or disciplinary sanctions of the exchange No No     5 Whether the company has received administrative punishment, administrative supervision measures or disciplinary sanction from the CSRC in the past three years No No     6 Whether the stock is suspended from listing or has issued a risk alert No No     7 Whether the company is under investigation of the CSRC and the investigation has not yet been concluded No No     8 Whether the company is in the process of bankruptcy restructuring No No     9 Whether the restructuring involves industries listed in Opinions of the State Council on Promoting Corporate Mergers and Restructuring and Guiding Opinions on Accelerating the Merger and Restructuring of Enterprises in Key Industries Yes Yes     10 Whether the restructuring is made between/among companies in the same industry or upstream-downstream companies and not belongs to backdoor listing Yes Yes     11 Whether the restructuring involves the issuance of new shares No Yes          

The 12th Session of Qualification Training Course for Board of Secretary of SME Board Held by SZSE
date:2013-9-17
Substantially Disclosure of the Risk of M&A Restructuring, Strictly Prevention of Insider Trading and Market Speculation   In order to further enhance the disclosure standard of public companies, and strengthen honest operation, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) held the 12th session of Qualification Training Course for Board Secretary of SME Board on September 12 and 13, 2013 in Shenzhen. About 1000 current or prospective board secretaries and securities affair representatives from companies listed on SME Board attended the training, which is held by means of remote video and on-site training.   The contents of training is substantial and pragmatic, including the legal responsibility of board secretaries, the abnormal trading of public companies and the precaution thereof, general regulation on information disclosure, periodic report and performance result report, raised fund management, etc.. By adopting the combination of regulations illustration and case study, the training is very pertinent for the participants.   Specific to the phenomenon of blooming public companies M&A and stock price fluctuation due to the restructuring, SZSE organized relevant courses of Public Company M&A and Prevention of Insider Training, etc., centering around the theme of Substantially Disclosure of the Risk of M&A Restructuring, Strictly Prevention of Insider Trading and Market Speculation .    It is emphasized at the meeting, in the process of transforming management mode from administrative approval to supervisory law enforce, China Securities Regulatory Commission will handle the major malignant cases in accordance with the principles of 'steady', 'accurate', 'strict' and 'rapid'. The number of inspection and law enforcement crew will increase from 600 to 1200. CSRC will tighten the supervision over insider trading, and trace accountability of and punish the illegal actions of false information disclosure, market manipulation etc. As indicated in the training course that, prevention of insider trading and market speculation is the top priority of SZSE’s supervision over M&A. SZSE will energetically support such substantive M&A as beneficial to enhance the sustainable profitability and propel the sound development of listed companies. However, SZSE will firmly reject such M&A as targeted at market speculation and realization of short term benefit through financial statement restructuring. The statistics shows that ever since this year, there are 99 cases  reported to SZSE as abnormal trading cases, among which, 81 cases are involved with insider trading, up 40% the same period over last year; abnormal trading due to M&A account for a major percentage, and present a uprising momentum. CSRC pay a great attention on some of these cases, and have already conducted inspections into these cases. It is required at the meeting that, public companies shall operate in line with the regulations, and carefully shoulder the responsibility of information disclosure. In particular, during the process of M&A, public companies need to disclose accurately and completely the asset quality involved in M&A restructuring, carry out a comprehensive and profound analysis on various impacts regarding the M&A on listed companies, and disclose substantially relevant risk to the investors. Meanwhile, listed company shall narrow down the scope of insider, and guard against insider trading. In addition, public companies shall show good social responsibility, and maintain normal market order. Not only shall listed companies guard against insider trading and market manipulation, but also shall take effective measures to prevent market speculation and protect the legal rights and interests of small and medium investors.

Adjustment Made to the Constituents of SZSE ChiNext Index
date:2013-9-17
Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. recently announced to make regular adjustment to the sample stocks for SZSE ChiNext Index. It is the fourth adjustment of the year and will come into effect as of the first trading day of October in 2013.   In the adjustment, SZSE ChiNext Index will adjust 9 sample stocks, including taking in Jinlong ME, Avcon and Janus and removing Xindaxin Materials, Geeya Technology and Oxiranchem.   The adjustment will result in enhanced market representativeness for SZSE ChiNext Index. Its coverage of tradable market capitalization will increase from 60.71% to 62.60%. According to figures in 2013 interim reports, the sample stocks after the adjustment will represent 44.73% business revenue and 56.28% net profit in the ChiNext board. On the other hand, the growth rate for constituents will be increased after the adjustment. Growth rate of business revenue and net profit for the first half of 2013 are 30.27% and 15.63% respectively, up 5% and 7% compared to the pre-adjustment figures.   In light of high growth characteristics of the ChiNext board, SZSE ChiNext Index makes regular adjustment to sample stocks on a quarterly basis to ensure the timely inclusion of market new vigor, which distinguishes itself from other indices in the market.  More materials can be found on the website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and the website of CNINDEX (www.cnindex.com.cn).

Road Shows and Company Visits Held for International Investors
date:2013-9-12
Shenzhen Stock Exchange organized road shows and on-site visit to listed companies by international institutional investors recently in Beijing. Yanjing Beer (000729), Blue Focus (300058) and LeTV (300104) held roadshows before over 50 international institutional investors during Best Ideas China Investment Conference co-sponsored by B&P Marcum and CCG. Over 20 international institutional investors visited Beijing Origin Water Technology Company (300070), Beijing Venustech (002439) and Quanjude (002186). Corporate executives answered questions about business operation and explained in detail their companies’ products, services and market positions. SZSE representatives also introduced the exchange’s recent development and investor relations services.  SZSE has held many such public visits to listed companies and securities brokerage firms for domestic investors. In the background of further opening-up of the Chinese capital market, SZSE initiated the program to organize visits for international investors to listed companies in China. It is part of an effort to establish a long-term mechanism for international investor relations service. SZSE has intensified effort to enhance information service for international investors. Earlier this year SZSE upgraded its English website  and created QFII Section. SZSE issues weekly Market Bulletin to keep international investors abreast of market development. SZSE also promotes communication with international investors to promote Chinese capital market.

The 2nd Activities of “Ecological Civilization, Dialogue with Alxa” Successfully Held
date:2013-9-11
On September 6 and 7, China Association for Public Companies and Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) jointly hosted the second session activities of “Ecological Civilization, Dialogue with Alxa” together with the government authorities and military area command of Alxa League, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region. At the event, the initiative supporting the “Construction of an Ecological Forest of Chinese Listed Companies” was launched by China Association for Public Companies, Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges, China Financial Futures Exchange, China Securities Depository and Clearing Co., Ltd., 27 regional associations for public companies and Alxa Ecological Foundation.   Liu Xinhua, Vice Chairman of China Securities Regulatory Commission, addressed in the event that the fulfillment of corporate social responsibility has always been regarded as an important part in CSRC’s efforts in improving the mechanism of corporate governance of listed companies, especially at such important period of economic transformation and industrial upgrading. Three suggestions were given to listed companies by Liu Xinhua. First, more and more listed companies are expected to disclose annual reports on social responsibility in the future, taking the initiative to accept the supervision from investors and the public. Meanwhile, China Association for Public Companies together with Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges will shoulder the corresponding responsibilities to cooperate with each other. Second, all listed companies and entities within the securities system are expected to play an active role in the “Green Revolution”, developing green products, promoting green technology innovation, building green industrial chains, realizing “green development, cyclic development, low carbon development”, and creating sustained competitiveness of enterprises. Third, listed companies and operating institutions of securities and futures are expected to actively participate in the construction of ecological civilization, paying close attention to environmental restoration and protection, and putting the “Chinese Dream” into practice.   As representatives of outstanding enterprises, listed companies mush link their corporate strategies with social responsibility, pointed out by Li Xiaoxue, Vice-chairman of China Association for Public Companies. He emphasized that the fulfillment of corporate social responsibility is no equivalent to public welfare undertakings or social donation. Social responsibility should be linked with corporate strategies and corporate culture, integrated into all aspects of corporate governance and corporate behaviors.   As introduced by Chen Dongzheng, Council President of Shenzhen Stock Exchange, the purpose of setting up the Alxa Ecological Foundation is to change the social responsibility spirit of desertification control from an institutional behavior into a social behavior. SZSE will give further support to the Alxa Ecological Foundation, maintain and reconstruct ecological environment with multilateral forces, mirroring Yili Resources Group’s desertification control experience in Kubuqi desert.   The Analysis on 2013 Social Responsibility Reports of A-share Listed Companies was jointly issued by China Association for Public Companies and Securities Times at the event. The Analysis shows that an increasing number of A-share listed companies disclosing independent corporate social responsibility reports. The figure for 2013 was 658, up 11.15% compared to 2012.

Speech by Song Liping, President & CEO of SZSE at the fifth China-ASEAN Summit Forum on Financial Cooperation and Development
date:2013-9-6
Distinguished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen:   Fifteen years ago, a regional financial crisis changed the economic development path of Southeast Asian nations. Many countries, including ASEAN countries, sought ways to transform their economic growth model. Their valuable experience accumulated from years of endeavors also sheds light on us.   China is exploring a new economic growth pattern to shift from investment-led growth to innovation-driven development. To achieve this transition, we should not only allocate more resources to the innovation sector, but also to cultivate an institutional environment and a social climate that inspires and advocates innovations. On the other hand, we should also form a deep-rooted social foundation and an endogenous power that supports the innovation-driven development. The capital market has an irreplaceable role to play in this process.   Firstly we must bring the advantages of direct financing to full play and guide more capital flows toward innovation. Economic transition also means change in capital allocation. Innovation-driven development requires a suitable financial system to mobilize increasing financial resources to invest in innovative sectors. It requires a vibrant capital market to channel a wide range of social capital into the field of innovation in support of emerging industries and economic development. It has become a consensus for many nations. We have gained some experience in this regard. Since we launched the ChiNext Market in October 2009, 355 companies have been listed, mainly from emerging industries such as energy-saving and environmental protection, new energy, new materials, cultural innovation and Internet services. A number of innovative enterprises have experienced tremendous growth, which leads to the booming development in venture capital (VC) and private equities (PEs) sectors. The total number of active VC and PE firms has reached 4,000 with over RMB 1.64 trillion of capital under management. At present, important breakthroughs have occurred in emerging industries such as information consumption, energy saving and environmental protection and health service, where social capital investment has played a significant role over these years.   Second we must form a risk diversification and incentive mechanisms to boost entrepreneurship and innovative spirit. Innovation means breaking-up of status quo and reconfiguration of various factors. This not only enables better allocation of capital, but also unleashes innovative power of the entire society. The key element is the emergence of innovative entrepreneurs in large numbers who speed up innovation in enterprises and bring together the innovative factors of the whole society. Economist Joseph Schumpeter even saw emergence of entrepreneurs in large numbers as the only reason for economic prosperity. Consequently, transition to an innovation-driven economic growth model is not simply an economic issue. It requires that we foster a social environment that encourages and protects entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurs are not capable of bearing  risks involved in innovation alone even though they possess visions for innovative opportunities and managerial skills to cash in on them. The capital market offers venture capital for entrepreneurs, helps diversify and stimulate entrepreneurship through risk compensation mechanism. This is the unique advantage of the capital market.   Third we must build a highly-efficient platform to enable free flow, convergence and restructuring of innovative factors such as technology and talent. Innovation is a process of “trial and error”. It is market-oriented and involves enterprises as major participants. It is a process where innovative factors converge and restructure. Through equity as a link, the capital market provides a highly-efficient platform to enable free flow of innovative factors, optimize their allocation and minimize cost of “trial and error”. We have visited many research institutes and hi-tech companies, only to find that a considerable amount of research findings with attractive market prospects have been shelved in the laboratories. A major obstacle is inadequate entitlement of rights and benefits to scientists and technicians, who thus become less incentivized to commercialize research results. Last November, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and the Ministry of Science and Technology jointly issued Opinions on Support for Recognizing Scientific and Technological Achievements as Capital Investment and Rights to Equity Shares which removed the obstacle. Leveraging on the pricing and trading mechanisms of the capital market, we have broadened the channel for scientific findings to be transformed into productive innovative factors. At the same time, more and more listed companies have recognized that, in order to keep talents, they must build stronger teams, establish strategic partnerships and achieve the synergy on a wider scope. Thus equity incentives have become increasingly important in that it aligns interest of talented employees with that of the company. What’s more, through M&As the capital market makes it possible for companies to obtain innovative resources in a broader range within a shorter period of time. Thus they can conduct innovative activities on a higher level and a wider scale by incorporating what used to bedispersed innovative resources. At present, SME Board- and ChiNext-listed companies are mainly in the categories of emerging industries such as biomedicine, Internet, energy conservation and environment protection. Technology-motivated and talent-motivated acquisitions have become the major M&A types. M&As have already played a critical role in the converging and optimizing allocation of innovative resources.   Though China’s economic transition is an arduous task, it may well determine the future of China’s economy. We must mobilize power of all walks of life and tailor-make a multi-tiered capital market for China’s economic transition. It will not only provides strong momentum for China to upgrade its economy led by innovation, but also lays a new foundation for the capital market to continuously enhance its development quality and the ability to deliver returns on capital. We will work together with all social sectors to achieve this goal!   Thank you!

President of Kenya Visits Shenzhen Stock Exchange
date:2013-8-27
Mr. Uhuru Kenyatta, President of Kenya and his delegation visited Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) on 23 August, 2013. Mr. Chen Dongzheng, Chairman of SZSE, held discussion with the Kenyan delegation.   Mr. Chen Dongzheng briefed guests on SZSE’s efforts in building a multi-tiered capital market, especially the role the capital market plays to facilitate economic transition and industrial upgrading. He said SZSE’s commitment to building consensus and forming synergy coincides with the Kenyan national spirit of “Harambee (all pull together)”.  President Kenyatta said he had observed that SZSE's impressive growth was driven by unity of purpose, focus, discipline and diligence. President Kenyatta said the Kenyan government was creating an environment conducive for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to thrive. The Nairobi Securities Exchange is planning to develop a market segment for SMEs and Kenya would like to strengthen communication with SZSE.   President Kenyatta rang the opening bell for trading. He was accompanied by Mr. Liu Guangyuan, Chinese Ambassador to Kenya and Mr. Zhang Wen, Vice Mayor of Shenzhen.

Speech by Song Liping, President and CEO of SZSE, 2013 CCTV China's Listed Companies’ Summit
date:2013-8-24
Distinguished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen: I am very pleased to participate in 2013 CCTV Chinese Listed Companies’ Summit.   The theme of this summit is economic transition and upgrading. We recently held a seminar for listed companies in medical and pharmaceutical industry in Yinchuan, which discussed how to leverage the advantages of listed companies to accelerate the upgrading of the industry. The medical and pharmaceutical industry has great potential for development in China's economic and social transformation process. But like many emerging industries, the medical and pharmaceutical industry is characterized by many small competitors and market fragmentation. Even after a large-scale consolidation, the number of pharmaceutical companies rose from 3,352 in 2003 to the present 6,000. The top 10 companies only account for 15% of market share. 70% of the companies report less than RMB 30 million in annual sales revenue. The new administration initiated reform measures to promote economic transformation and upgrading, streamline administrative control, accelerate delegation of power, release the power of innovation of the private sector and establish a unified national market. During the seminar, listed companies expressed a general belief that these reform measures hit the nail on the head and the industry will usher in strategic opportunities for large-scale consolidation and upgrading.   In this process, the capital market serves as a basic for expectant listed companies. Because the capital market not only provides a smooth financing channel but also instruments and tools for market-based mergers and acquisitions. The capital market is highly transparent and sensitive to prices. As long as sound policies and good services are in place, the market performance will positively interact with corporate operations, galvanizing the listed companies to make continuous improvements in the direction of industrial transformation and upgrading. During the seminar, participants from listed companies expressed many practical needs and suggestions for improvement for of capital market services.   Listed pharmaceutical companies are representative of all issuers of SZSE. The multi-tiered capital market of SZSE features highly diverse sectors. Over the past year, we have been paying close attention to the demands of listed companies. We’ve hosted forums for photovoltaic, seed, and other industries. Recently, SZSE and China Association for Public Companies (CAPCO) jointly conducted consultation and research on listed companies in industries such as advanced equipment manufacturing. We have gained many insights in how capital markets supports the economic transition and upgrading from the needs expressed by our listed companies.   For example, communication, interaction and cooperation among industry leaders are necessary for listed companies to promote the significant consolidation of the industry. Thanks to the advantage of regions where listed companies cluster, we expect to establish a communication platform for listed companies to keep abreast of industry trends, understand their positioning, enhance peer communication, break geographical boundaries, enable companies in different regions to appreciate advantages of disadvantages of themselves and industry peers and create opportunities for cooperation.   Listed companies have noticed that the CSRC has been making great efforts in supporting mergers and acquisitions (M&As). Besides examination and approval, financing, pricing and applying differentiated review procedures to different companies as well as other issues of public concern, more specific problems need to be solved in optimizing mechanism accordingly. For instance, more improvements are expected in validity of resolutions of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings, trading suspension and resumption arrangements and pricing evaluation. We need to further heighten measures against insider trading and improve registration system of persons with inside information. We need to further enhance quality of service by financial consulting firms, increase capital and manpower input in M&A business by investment banks and strengthen the standardized management during the asset evaluation of M&A. We need to develop financing instruments such as M&A funds to meet the demands of M&As.   Listed companies have also recognized that understanding and recognition by shareholders and investors are necessary for them to take full advantage of the capital market and seize opportunities presented by industrial transformation. Only under such a condition can they ensure the implementation of strategic measures. Hence, at present, it is especially important to do a good job in investor relationship management. To achieve that goal, we need to develop more effective communication platforms and mechanisms, build a bridge of mutual trust between listed companies and investors and provide more services and guidance for listed companies.   When listed companies are seeking development in industry consolidation, the situation is quite different from the period when they were experiencing speedy development in the Blue Sea of a specific industry segment. They have to jump out of their familiar but saturated areas, gather more talented people, build stronger teams and establish strategic partnerships in order to achieve the synergy of team and talents on a wider scope. Venture companies used to rely on the mutual trust between team members. But when they become listed public companies, they need to employ long-term systemic measures like corporate governance and equity incentive. However, it has been a new challenge for many companies to establish a sound system of corporate governance and equity structure. Such a system should be suitable for them and can ensure the stability of their team and achievement of their goals. According to statistics, in a few years ahead, several hundred companies face the issue of “successors” of the management.   In addition, in the process of issuer cultivation and listing promotion, we have received feedback from many pre-IPO companies. According to them, emerging industries are still in the budding period, with many companies below listing standards. For the capital market to better support industry upgrading, we must extend our services downward to cover more emerging companies. Besides the optimization of listing standards congenial with growth patterns, we should boost the OTC market and enable infant enterprises to access services by seasoned professional services by securities firms, accounting firms and law firms. From the very beginning seasoned investors provide emerging companies with capital, form restraint mechanism and guide them to improve accounting fundamentals and corporate governance. Through the measures mentioned, we can construct the long missing support mechanism in the capital market for the growth companies in China. At the same time, we should explore innovative methods and products such as SME Private Placement Bonds and Asset-backed securitization products to enable small and micro companies to benefit from the capital market.   The State Council has recently released Guidance on Financial Support for Economic Restructuring and Upgrading, or “Ten Guidelines for Financial Development”, clarifying main tasks for the capital market development in the future. With listed companies’ suggestions in mind, we know that it is a systematic project for capital market to support economic transition and upgrading. Introduction of a series of relevant policies is critical to drive economic upgrading. But it requires a platform that mobilizes the power of all aspects of the capital market and improves services to listed companies in an all-around way to achieve the goal.   Therefore, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), stock exchanges and all levels of capital market have attached great importance to listed companies’ suggestions, and have taken measures to find out and solve the problems one by one. This year, we proposed of building a Home for SMEs, a comprehensive, open and public platform that integrates listing, training, information sharing, research, exhibition, business and other value-added services, to enhance communication among listed companies. Under the leadership of CSRC, SZSE has examined the internal regulatory barriers for M&A and improved basic rules such as Through-put Information Disclosure. In this way, we have streamlined procedures and facilitated operations to make preparation for highly efficient M&As. SZSE also helps listed companies build a long-term investor relation management mechanism. We have expanded the coverage of interactive information on internet by promoting Easy IR, Easy Voting and other on-line investor relation management platforms. We have launched the pilot program of video-conferencing of general meeting of shareholders via internet and promote on-line voting system. We also maintained the tradition of Open House Programs for investors to make site visits to listed companies. By establishing the corporate governance research center, SZSE makes an effort to find out and diagnose main corporate governance problems baffling SZSE-listed companies, especailly small and median-sized companies and non-state-owned companies which dominate Shenzhen market. Recently, we put forward suggestions for improvement of corporate government for SZSE-listed companies and released SZSE Annual Report on Corporate Governance. SZSE also summarized experiences of SME private placement bonds, Alibaba small loan asset-backed securities and other experiences to support small and micro business. We joined in the establishment of Qianhai Equity Exchange and other regional equity exchanges, exploring effective channels of the capital market to serve small and micro companies.   As China is the world's second largest economy, transformation and upgrading will inevitably be a long and arduous process, and must go through pains of transition. But exactly for this reason, the capital market is called into action to play irreplaceable strategic role. In fact, as indicated by this year's market performance, market participants have begun seeking opportunities and breakthroughs during the economic transformation and upgrading. Recently, President Xi Jinping's speech during his investigative tour in Wuhan and Political Bureau of CPC Central Committee’s deployment on economic front in the second half year have both signaled strong commitment to advancing reform and promoting economic transformation and upgrading. This further clarifies market expectations.   Innovation is an important driving force for economic restructuring. Economist Joseph Schumpeter once said that innovation means breaking of status quo, acceleration of entrepreneurial activities in recombination of various factors and the emergence of innovative entrepreneurs in large numbers. Listed companies are representatives of China's top-performing entrepreneurs. They have the best conditions for innovation. We should focus on listed companies, revitalize existing assets and make good use of the incremental, enhance the quality and efficiency of listed companies, and achieve the important breakthrough of China's economic transformation and upgrading. This is not only an important task for the capital market to give financial support for economic transformation and upgrading, but also the foundation and source of power for the capital market to enhance investment returns and achieve healthy development.   Thank you!  

SZSE Signed Agreements on Easy IR and Investment Education Products Cooperation with Members and Information Suppliers
date:2013-8-20
In order to push forward cause of protecting investors’ rights and investors education in securities market, and advance markets’ overall service level for investors, Shenzhen Stock Exchange(SZSE), Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. held a ceremonial signing of agreement on Easy IR and investors education products Cooperation with a number of members, information suppliers in Shenzhen Stock Exchange on August 15, 2013. Eight members including Huatai Securities, China Galaxy Securities, Guotai Junan Securities, Guosen Securities, Haitong Securities, China Merchants Securities, Shanxi Securities, Xiangcai Securities, and three financial information suppliers including Flush, eastmoney.com, Ihandy participated the cooperation agreement signing ceremony. Related principals from SZSE, Zheng Song, General Manager of Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. and leaders from relevant cooperative entities attended the signing ceremony.   Related principal from SZSE indicated that free and effective exchange of information not only is the key factor guiding effective resources allocation in the capital market, but also determines capital market’s capacity of serving the real economy. Investors, the demanding side for information, are always hoping to acquire more information for investment decision making, whereas traditional disclosure method can no longer accommodate to the features of information dissemination in the internet era. Against such backdrop, SZSE launched Easy IR platform by referencing relevant function of weibo, ushering into a new era, in which investors and listed companies can communicate interactively.   Relevant principal from SZSE pointed out that Easy IR has received wide interests and keen favor since its debut among investors, which include individual investors, as well as researchers of securities companies and institution investors. Easy IR has developed into a new channel for investors to acquire authentic information of public companies, becoming an effective supplement to the statutory information disclosure, and thus is of great significance to the protection investors’ rights to know and inquire. In addition, SZSE will carry forward information disclosure express pilot project, so as to enhance the quality and promptness of information disclosure of public companies.   Mr. Zheng Song, General Manager of Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. suggested in his address to the ceremony that, the signing of the cooperative agreement opens a new phase, in which investors’ education products in the securities market can be mutually connected, exchanged, and resources is commonly shared. As the routine maintainer and technology supporter for Easy IR, Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd., will save no effort to guarantee the smooth operation of Easy IR, and will provide better technology support and information service according to the need of investors. In the future, the company will promote Easy IR in an all-around way via multiple channels, including website, TV, broadcast, magazine, new media, etc..   Huzhi, President Assistant of Huatai Securities, and representative of securities companies, probed into the topic of how internet financial service can promote the investor education. He expressed that the cooperative mode between the Exchange and securities companies regarding ‘co-building a platform, sharing resources, and facilitating education’ will form a strong drive to propel investor education in securities market. Further more, Zhu Zhifeng, Vice President of Flush, launched a profound talk on the application and value of Easy IR from the perspective of information suppliers and public companies.   It is reported, SZSE has planned an investor service platform integrated five products , including Easy IR, Easy Investment Knowledge, Easy Analysis, Easy Voting, and Easy Calling, and launched SZSE Investor Service Passport for unified ID entrance management. In accordance with the agreement, SZSE will provide user access and data exchange services of Easy IR and other SZSE investor service platform to the authorized signatories. After signing agreement, each cooperative party may use, promote SZSE investor education and service public goods, and carry out research and analysis on data in related to investors, so as to comprehend the over-all information on investors, and provide empirical evidence and data support for custom-tailor investor education and service.   SZSE have always highly valued investor education and protection. In order to protect investors’ legitimate rights and interests, foster the sound development of securities market, SZSE constantly act as the bridge, laying solid foundation for capital market. On the one hand, SZSE intensify the supervision, improve the relevant regulation and systems, forging protective umbrella for investors; on the other hand, SZSE establish and optimize the market-oriented service system and basic platform mechanism, so that the bodies of the market can interact face-to-face, and medium-and-small investors’ ability of safeguarding their legal rights can be reinforced.   In the future, SZSE will continue to give a full play to the role of market organizer, energetically probe for innovation, cooperate with the market bodies, jointly maintain an open, fair, and righteous market, and protect the legitimate rights and interests of investors, especially that of medium-and-small investors, create an more comfortable, convenient and effective environment for medium-and-small investors to exercise their lawful rights and interests, so as to boost the health development of the capital market.

SZSE Complete the 3rd Round of Review and Reduction of Examination and Registration Items
date:2013-7-18
Recently, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) completed the 3rd round of review and reduction of Examination and Registration Items, and Issued List of Examination and Registration Items and Guidelines for Going through Examination and Registration Formalities. The move is in response to State Council’s instruction of “deepening the reform on administrative examination and approval system, and continuing to streamline administration”, and is also an attempt to further improve the quality, efficiency and transparency of self-disciplinary, supervision and services.   Relevant principal from SZSE pointed out that, after the review and reduction, SZSE has reduced the number of examination and registration items to 16, decreasing 48% compared with the result of 48 after the 2nd round of reduction in 2009.To be more specific, the number of examination items has been reduced from 15 to 8, a decrease of 46%; and that of registration items has been reduced from 16 to 8, decreasing 50%. The remnant 16 items cover all SZSE’s daily business in market organization and supervision, including membership supervision, trading seats and units management, listing and trading resumption applications, pre-examination for information disclosure,  fixed income products, and etc..   As the self-disciplinary organization in the securities market, although having no administrative power, SZSE has certain examination and registration functions that would somewhat affect the rights and obligations of market participants in daily supervisions. Examination items refer to issues that need SZSE’s substantial examination and verification on applications for launching certain business, gaining certain qualification, or getting certain authorization, and such an examination procedure is based on laws, administrative rules or regulations issued by CSRC. Registration items refer to issues that need SZSE’s review in form on applications for launching certain business, gaining certain qualification, or getting certain authorization and such a registration procedure is conducted according to the regulatory files of CSRC or business rules of SZSE.   Further more, in order to facilitate market participants to go through relevant formalities, SZSE, formulated Guidelines for Going through Examination and Registration Formalities, which covers the 16 examination and registration items.  Market participants can access the detailed information in the column of “Examination and Registration Items” through SZSE’s website.   Relevant principal from SZSE emphasized that as the self-disciplinary organization in the securities market, SZSE lays great emphasis on the review and reduction of examination and registration items and two rounds of reduction have already been launched previously, in 2004 and 2009 respectively. In the future, SZSE will launch timely review and reduction of examination and registration items, continue to improve the long-term mechanism of reduction and rationalization of restraints, and constantly enhance the effectiveness, pertinence and transparency of self-disciplinary  supervision and services.  

Advancing Asset Securitization Business Steadily to Serve Small and Micro Enterprises
date:2013-7-8
Approved by China Securities Regulatory Commission recently, Orient Securities Asset Management-Alibaba No.1-10 Special Asset Management Plan, launched by Shanghai Orient Securities Asset Management Company Limited, will be transferred through Shenzhen Stock Exchange Comprehensive Trading Platform. The debut of the product indicates the emergence of an additional new type of asset among the asset securitization products series. The product, with the creditor’ rights of the loan issued to small and micro enterprises by Alibaba Small Loan Company as the basic asset, will be issued in 10 tranches irregular within 3 years, with the quota of each tranche ranging from CNY200 million to CNY500 million. Given that small loan asset is featured with short duration and randomization of borrowing and repaying, the product adopts recycling purchase mode of trading structure, i.e. as soon as basic asset related creditor’ right has been repaid, the fund attained can be used cyclically in purchasing new qualified small loan assets. Even though this trading structure, capable of resolving the duration matching problem of short-term loan asset and long-term securitization products, has become a mature practice in overseas market, it is the first trial in the domestic asset securitization market.   By virtue of the users’ data built-up via Alibaba e-commerce platform, Alibaba Small Loan, combining with the internet loan mode and under the premise of effective identification and risk control, is an advantageous attempt in resolving the difficulty of financing confronted with by small and micro enterprises and individual entrepreneurs. After securitization of small loan, Alibaba Small Loan can attain fund available for credit from capital market. In this way it will expand its business scale, and thus will provide better financial service to the real economy.   Small and micro enterprises, as the major clients of Alibaba Small Loan, will benefit from the development of this kind of products. In the meeting of the standing committee of State Council on June 19, it was explicitly pointed out that it was imperative to facilitate improving the weak link of credit for small and micro enterprises. In recent years, State Council has successively issued a series of supportive policies, elevating the development of small and micro enterprises in a strategic height, steering the financial support of financial institutions for small and micro enterprises, giving a full play to the irreplaceable role of small and micro enterprises in enhancing the job market and booming the economy growth, innovating science and technology and facilitating social harmony and stability.   Functioned as an important financial instrument for capital market to serve the real economy, asset securitization business provides a path for altering assets lack of liquidity into standardized financial products, therefore is of importance to activate the stock assets, and improve the liquidity of asset. Under the unified deploy of China Securities Regulatory Commission, SZSE has organized a special team for asset securitization since 2005, in order to advance asset securitization business. So far, it has successfully achieved the securitization of such assets as charge of express way, charge of sewage treatment, and revenue of electric power, providing support to the development of real economy and construction of infrastructure. After the successful earlier-stage trial, SZSE will endeavor to advance the asset securitization business to regular development, further improve the product structure and enrich the asset types. During the previous year, products such as charge of Nanjing Urban sewage treatment, ticket to the Happy Valley theme park, charge of Lancang River Power, etc., have been successively listed in SZSE, financing CNY6.25 billion for the enterprises.   Principal in charge of the related business from SZSE indicates that, SZSE will continue to push forward the asset securitization business steadily combining the need of real economy, continually carry out cultivation and demonstration of asset securitization business, and make efforts in the risk control and appropriateness management of innovative products. ‘Alibaba No.1-10 Special Asset Management Plan’ , being the first trial of small loan type of asset securitization, is both significant and risky. SZSE will further strengthen the continuing follow-up, risk evaluation and risk resolving mechanism of product, through increasing the prescribed minimum for the transfer of the advanced unit, implementing the investors’ appropriateness management, continually focusing on the transfer and repurchase of products, and refining the risk contingency pre-plan for major situation change.

Speech by Song Liping, President and CEO of SZSE, at a Panel Session on Multi-tiered Capital Market during 2013 Lujiazui Forum
date:2013-7-4
June 2013 Shanghai Economic transformation is the main theme for the coming decade. It will inevitably be risky process, invoking people’s acute feelings. A case in point is the photovoltaic industry. Though a typical emerging industry, it has encountered industry-wide crisis. Another example is the debt risk associated with high leverage of shadow banking and local financing platforms, which has become a topic of everyday conversation nowadays. The central government requires that we resolutely guard against systematic and regional financial risks. This will indeed be a tough task for us in the years to come.   With deepening economic transformation, various economic risks will continuously occur, surface and concentrate, calling for proper risk management platforms, mechanisms and capabilities in response. From this perspective, it is of great urgency to accelerate development of the multi-tiered capital for the following reasons:   Firstly, we must take advantage of the capital market’s role in decentralizing decision-making and diversifying risk in response to high uncertainty involved in entrepreneurial activities. No a priori planning or design of the capital market guarantees success of an emerging industry. Therefore, we must allow market players to make as many trials and errors as needed at their own risk, adjust directions in economic transformation and upgrading accordingly. It helps reduce systemic risk.   Secondly, in order to deleverage in the course of transformation, we should broaden the channels of equity financing. In the past decade, several major commercial banks supplemented their capital through share offering, which has been very instrumental in stabilizing the banking system. Now, thanks to continuous expansion, the multi-tiered capital market has deeper penetration in the national economy. will It will improve the risk tolerance of the overall economic system to accelerate development of ChiNext, National OTC Market, regional equity markets and venture investment, mobilize idle funds in society and facilitate capital formation at different levels and cutting debt ratios   Thirdly, the capital market is a more transparent and standardized market, which is conducive to full exposure of risk and transfer of risk assets. After the financial crisis, we have fully realized that off-exchange opaque financial transactions involve huge risk. This is also the reason why the current shadow banking system has aroused widespread concern. For the purpose of effective management of financial risk, it is also very important to securitize certain financial activities in exchange.   Lastly, as interest rates and exchange rates will become more market-driven, almost all businesses and residents will face the risk of volatile interest and exchange rates. The development of financial derivatives markets will be a necessary requirement.   Essentially, the capital market is a risk pricing and allocation market. How this function is performed will determine how big a role the capital market is able to play in economic transformation. All the parties related to the market should perform their due responsibilities and become well-prepared. Regulators should maintain an open, fair and equitable market environment. Market participants, especially securities companies, should enhance their risk pricing and allocation capabilities. As an intermediary between investors and financing parties, securities companies have expertise in pricing, risk control, sales and client management. Their capacity and expertise are crucial in determining, to a great extent, the efficiency of risk pricing and allocation of the market.   SZSE’s practice in the last year indicates that securities companies have not fully prepared for the transformation, as evident in sponsorship of ChiNext companies, development of OTC markets, private placement bonds and other areas of product innovation. Another example is asset-backed securities (ABC) products, to which we have attached great importance. ABC products are instrumental in tapping idle assets, diversifying financing tools and reducing financing costs. However, they have high requirements on the overall capabilities of securities companies. Securities companies are required to perform due diligence on underlying assets, evaluate both the seller’s and the buyer’s needs and risk appetite when designing products. They must invest their own money upfront for pricing and market making. They can only distribute products to suitable clients in sales. As a result, securities companies even need to split, repackage products or reallocate risk. In practice, ABS products are conducted through a number of business lines, such as fixed-income products, asset management and investment banking independently without support and cooperation from one another. They are still involved in the low-level competition for “luring projects” and lack both cohesive advantages and whole-process risk control due to historical reasons. Now it is the time to make up the missed lesson, as required not only for developing the multi-tiered capital market but also economic transformation.

Speech by Song Liping at MOU Signing Ceremony in Heilongjiang
date:2013-6-25
Ladies and gentlemen: Good morning! I am very pleased to join this conference in Heilongjiang Province to promote the Pilot SME Private Placement Bond Programme. The SME Private Placement Bond was one of the highlights of reform and innovation of the capital market last year. It serves to improve the capital market's ability to serve the real economy Chinese economy is now in the stage of acceleration, growth model transformation and institutional transition. We must support endogenous growth. This requires significant downward extension of capital market services, fostering fresh growth points in local economies. The Pilot SME Private Placement Bond Programme, one of the highlights of capital market reform last year, is a useful attempt to serve key areas and weak links in real economy. SME Private Placement Bond is the country’s first completely market-based bond. It does not require administrative approval, nor net assets or profitability requirements. Over the past year, the SME Private Placement Bond has gained high market recognition for its mode of offering, duration of document filing and requirement of credit enhancement, which meet the needs of both issuers and investors. The product is also applauded for flexible design and investor suitability management. SME Private Placement Bond entirely relies on intermediary institutions, connecting SMEs with both potential and risk to investors with risk-discerning and bearing abilities. The product has displayed strong vigor and vitality. By the end of May 2013, 146 SME Private Placement Bonds have completed filing with SZSE and 98 have accomplished offering with total proceeds worth 11.5 billion yuan (US$1.8 billion). The average coupon rate is 9.25%. The rapid development in private placement bonds has deepened the foundation of the capital market and provides a new approach to support growth in real economy. SME Private Placement Bond, an entirely market-based product, helps strengthen market restraint mechanism, exerting great significance for the capital market. SME Private Placement Bond also plays an irreplaceable role in fostering risk awareness in investors. The possibility of bond defaults makes investors increasingly concerned about risk. SME Private Placement Bond is based on the company's financial situation and reputation, reflecting the contractual relationship between the issuer and investors. The government does not provide credit endorsement. This requires that the investors be knowledgeable of the issuer's financial fundamentals, credit rating and credit enhancement measures. As a result, the market exerts restraint on underwriters and other intermediaries. There have been cases where despite successful document filing, issuance failed, indicating market restraint at work.   SME Private Placement Bond financing will constitute hard constraints and external compliance pressure for fund raising.  It is significant for healthy development of the capital market itself to baptize SMEs in their early growth stages. Bond issuers, constantly burdened with the pressure of debt service, have to consider the efficiency in fund allocation and exercise prudent management. Meanwhile, they must observe rules for information disclosure and maintain sound investor relations, in order to lay a solid foundation for future IPO. We understand that based upon positive result of the pilot programme, CSRC allows IPO candidates under review to apply for issuance of corporate bonds in Opinions on Further Promoting IPO Reform in China issued by on 6 June, 2013. SME Private Placement Bond must firmly take root in Heilongjiang’s local economy, giving capital markets a greater role to play to enhance its local economy by mobilizing concerted efforts by intermediary institutions and enterprises. The key to success in SME Private Placement Bond is intermediary services, especially securities firms. Securities firms’ customer base, risk control, product design capability assures successful issuance of private debt securities. The pilot project has expanded its scope to cover Heilongjiang. Intermediary agencies will meet more SMEs with local economic natures. Intermediary agencies must take into account natures of these enterprises, proceed from their business needs, optimize product design and match issuers with suitable investors. The financial sector must be based on the real economy and serve the real economy in fulfillment of the essential requirements of modern finance. A hard lesson was learned from the 2008 financial crisis. Agriculture has been the key areas of financial services and a weak link in Heilongjiang’s economy this year. The State Council designated two plains in Heilongjiang as a modern agricultural comprehensive reform pilot area. The capital market should take the opportunity of Pilot SME Private Placement Bond Programme in Heilongjiang, to understand the growth path of local agricultural enterprises, solidly improve services for local agricultural and related businesses. This is the test of the capital market’s ability to serve real economy. With the nationwide expansion of Pilot SME Private Placement Bond Programme, a gradual scale for credit rating will be formed for different regions in the country, exerting a significant impact on future financing cost for businesses in different localities.  Enterprises participating in the pilot programme should cherish the opportunity and shoulder the collective responsibility of maintaining credit-worthiness of the region. Let’s build a highland of credit-worthiness through the private debt pilot programme.  We will work together with you to let the Private Placement Bond take deep root in the black soil in Heilongjiang and let the capital market play a greater role in Heilongjiang’s economic and social transition.  

SZSE Agriculture Comprehensive Enterprises Index Launched Today
date:2013-6-24
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. recently announced to issue the SZSE Agriculture Comprehensive Enterprises Index (Code: 399669, Abbreviation: SZSE Agriculture) on June 24 2013, in a move to mirror the overall performance of agricultural companies listed on Shenzhen markets and further satisfy the diversified demands for indexing investment in the market. The index takes December 31 2004 as the base date and 1000 points as the base value.   Given the fundamental role of agriculture in the national economy, China’s capital market has been undertaking the vital task to serve “agriculture, countryside and farmers”. The pyramid market structure of SZSE plays an important role in the industrialization and modernization of the country’s agricultural sector. A large amount of outstanding agricultural listed companies have been incubated in the Shenzhen market, with the group size effect manifesting itself gradually. As of the end of May 2013, agriculture-related companies listed on SZSE totaled 115, accounting for 62% in the A-share markets. Total market capitalization and tradable market capitalization of these companies was recorded as CNY876.9 billion and CNY601.2 billion respectively.   It is introduced that A-share stocks of SZSE-listed companies in agriculture-related industries were included in the shortlist of sample stocks for the SZSE Agriculture Comprehensive Enterprises Index with reference to the CNINFO Industry Classification Benchmark. The top 50 were selected as sample stocks from the shortlist ranking by the weighting of average tradable market capitalization and average turnover at the ratio of 2:1.   The SZSE Agriculture Comprehensive Enterprises Index show good market representativeness as indicated by statistics that its sample stocks cover 78.74% total market capitalization and 84.71% tradable market capitalization in all the agriculture-related stocks in Shenzhen markets. Since the base date till the end of May 2013, the index made an accumulative return of 418.93% and an annualized return of 21.61%, outperforming the CNI A Share Index – a mirror of the entire A-share markets – by 187.57% and 7.67%.  More materials on the SZSE Agriculture Comprehensive Enterprises Index can be found on the website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and the website of CNNDEX (www.cnindex.com.cn).

SZSE Held Activities of “Realizing Chinese Dream and Building up an Upgraded Multi-Tiered Capital Market” in Different Cities
date:2013-6-19
Shenzhen Stock Exchange has recently launched series activities of “Realizing Chinese Dream and Building up an Upgraded Multi-tiered Capital Market” in Beijing, Shandong, Guangdong, Hubei, Shaanxi, Heilongjiang and et al. in a move to further improve the capital market’s ability and level to serve the real economy, actively cooperate with China Securities Regulatory Commission’s call for “Two Safeguard and One Foster” (to safeguard the markets in an open, fair and impartial manner; to safeguard the legal rights and interests of investors, especially mid- and small-cap investors; and to foster the healthy development of capital markets), achieve the two centenary goals and to boost Chinese Dream to consolidate the foundation. The activities are featured with:   Carrying out Special Activities of “Know Your Shareholders” in Various Ways   I. “Step into Listed Companies”. After 20 years’ development, the total amount of listed companies in the Shenzhen Stock Exchange has reached 1537 and the number of investor accounts has exceeded one hundred million. However, investor relation management of listed companies remains in poor status when comparing with mature markets. On the one hand, it’s hard for listed companies to find breakthrough points and channels even though they think highly of investor management; on the other hand, there’s great different in demands of investors. Many mid- and small-cap investors said that there’s too much information to locate the one they need. The activity of “Know Your Shareholder - Listed Companies' Open House Program for Investors” is designed to bridge the communication between investors and listed companies, getting investors to know listed companies by their own and solving the problems resulted from information asymmetry and distrust in listed companies. Moreover, SZSE has also developed the “Easy IR” – an Internet-based interactive investor relations service. On the platform, investors can not only communication with listed companies in a regulated, direct and timely manner by raising personalized questions to listed companies, but also can share research findings of institutional investors, improving the quality and depth of information acquired and breaking information asymmetry.   II. “Meet Your Brokers”. SZSE Investor Education Center has launched an online interactive and educational product for investors - “Easy IK”, an online investment and educational game, in a move to help investors assess investment risks rationally and cooperate with brokers in elevating the quality of investor suitability management. According to the real transaction data of over 20 years collected in ‘Easy IK’, investors can practice simulation stock trading to have a test on their own investment patterns and risk tolerance capacities based on their simulation trading results, which will be transmitted to the counter of brokers for guidance of investors’ rational investment and value-oriented investment.   As Song Liping, President and CEO of SZSE, pointed out at the scene of the 53rd Listed Companies' Open House Program for Investors---Harbin Fenghua-aerospace Hi-tech (Ticker Symbol: 000901) held today, the special activities of ‘Get to Know Your Investors’ are designed to, on the one hand, provide guidance on strengthening investor relations management for listed companies in a hope that listed companies can maintain good relations with their shareholders and investors, which is similar to their relations with clients, so as to facilitate their mutual trusts and minimize the risk of litigation filed by mid- and small-cap investors; and on the other hand, promote investors’ rational investment by stimulating investors to truly know themselves as shareholders. In addition, listed companies’ open house program also means the process of investigation and inspiration sparking on the side of SZSE. Despite mandatory disclosure, voluntary disclosure becomes an important issue in regulatory work in consideration of the different status, development environment and stage of listed companies. In addition to the Easy IR platform, SZSE has also developed online shareholders general meeting, which has been piloted on the SME board and ChiNext board and further, will extend to all listed companies, in order to address the inconvenience of spot meeting resulted from China’s vast territory. In contrast to the less than 10% of investors involved in online shareholders general meeting piloted in the past, the current pilot has got positive responses with involvement of more and more investors. Listed companies also attach greater importance to the online meeting because it is an effective means to showcase themselves. At present, the most vulnerable pillar is to the height of a building what investor education and management is to our capital market construction. As a result, the issue of protecting investors’ interests and enhancing their qualities shall be addressed from all aspects.   Holding Activities of“Entrepreneurship, Creation and Innovation–Young Chinese Dream”, Making Capital Markets Go into Universities   In an address in the “Youth Day” activity held within the securities and futures regulatory system, Chairman Xiao Gang pointed out that the “Chinese Dream” represented the will of all Chinese people and the capital market should become an important vehicle to realize the “Chinese Dream” given its step-by-step development for over 20 years and the multi-tiered market system forming. In response to Chairman Xiao’s calling, SZSE held activities of “Entrepreneurship, Creation and Innovation–Young Chinese Dream” in universities such as Tsinghua University, Shandong University, Sun Yat-Sen University, Northwest Agriculture and Forestry University, and Harbin Institute of Technology. The latest developments in capital markets were introduced and board chairmen from listed companies were invited to communicate with college students. Under the severe situation of employment, the capital market is important in helping young people realize their dream of “colorful life” by supporting innovative and entrepreneurial activities.   Deepening the Research of How Capital Markets Can Support Key Fields and Weak Links in Economy   Given the fundamental role of agriculture in people’s living, the support to modern agriculture represents the essential requirement of consumption upgrade and food safety. On the one hand, capital markets could solve the price fluctuation problems in bulk farm commodities trading, further protecting the interests of farmers; on the other hand, capital markets could strengthen the support to leading agricultural enterprises, realizing deep processing of agricultural products and industrialization of agriculture. In consideration of the recent hesitate in supporting agricultural companies in the financial circle, there’s urgent need in groping for agricultural enterprises’ law of development and improving services to agriculture-related enterprises. Moreover, it’s said in President Hu’s report at 18th Party Congress that “we should continue to follow a Chinese-style path that integrates the development of military and civilian sectors”, which pointed out a new strategic direction for capital markets to support independent innovation and national defense building. The transfer of military goods to civilian goods could not only substantially reduce R&D costs and realize economies of scale, but also further enhance the quality and function of military goods due to the diversified demands of civilian goods. There would be a brilliant future for capital markets in the progress of civil-military integration development. To this end, SZSE paid visits to Yangling Agricultural Hi-Tech Industrial Demonstrative Zone and the granary province of Heilongjiang, did research in hi-tech listed companies, held capital market seminars for financial cadres in local governments, in a move to deepen the capital markets’ supports to key fields and weak links in the new situation of agriculture development and civil-military integration.

Adjustment Made to the Sample Stocks for SZSE Component Index, SSE SME Price Index and GEM Price Index
date:2013-6-17
On June 17 2013, Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. jointly announced to make regular adjustment to the sample stocks for major indices in the Shenzhen market including SZSE Component Index, SME  Index, ChiNext Index and SZSE 100 Index. Meanwhile, Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. also announced to adjust the sample stocks for cross-market CNINFO Indices, such as CNINFO 100 Index. The adjustment will come into effect as of the first trading day of July in 2013.   In the adjustment, SZSE Component Index will adjust 3 sample stocks, taking in Changan Automobile, BOE Technology A and TCL and removing Hebei Steel, China Nonferrous Metal and Henan Shenhuo as sample stocks; SZSE SME Price Index will adjust 9 sample stocks, taking in stocks including Haid Group and O-film and removing stocks including Black Cat Carbon Black and Sunward; CHINEXT Price Index will adjust 8 sample stocks, taking in stocks including Sunwin Intelligent and Hualubaina and removing stocks including Supermap Software and Xinghui Auto Model; SZSE 100 Index will adjust 7 sample stocks, taking in stocks including Sealand Securities and Jereh Group and removing stocks including Zhongtai Chemical and Faw Xiali; CNINFO 100 Index will adjust 8 sample stocks, taking in stocks including Merchants Securities and China Shipbuilding Industry and removing stocks including Vanadium and Titanium and Zhongheng Group.   The adjustment will result in enhanced market representativeness for the major indices. Tradable market capitalization for SZSE Component Index and SZSE 100 Index accounts for 24.29% and 37.93% respectively in the Shenzhen market, up 0.91% and 0.73% comparing to the figures before adjustment; tradable market capitalization for SZSE SME Price Index accounts for 48.07% in the SME market, up 2.50% comparing to the figure before adjustment; tradable market capitalization for CHINEXT Price Index accounts for 61.86% in the ChiNext market, up 1.21%; tradable market capitalization for CNINFO 100 Index accounts for 51.89% in both Shanghai and Shenzhen markets, up 1.21%.   Thanks to the addition of a group of high-growth companies to sample stocks, all the indices involved have an improvement in revenue growth, net profit growth and return on equity. SZSE SME Price Index and SZSE 100 Index show the most prominent increase in net profit for the year of 2012, up 2.51% and 2.20% respectively compared to the figures before adjustment. Valuation is at the same level compared to the figure before the adjustment, as the indices’ growth of market value is backed by strong financial performance.   Industrial structures for the indices have been optimized after the adjustment. According to the CNINFO Industry Classification Benchmark, emerging industries account for 48%, 62%, 64% and 47% in SZSE Component Index, SZSE SME Price Index, CHINEXT Price Index and SZSE 100 Index respectively. Information technology, medicine and health care and other emerging high-growth industries, which represent the future of Chinese economy, have added weights in the major indices after the adjustment.

Building a Multi-tiered Capital Market Serving the Upgraded Chinese Economy
date:2013-6-13
-Speech by Song Liping, President and CEO of SZSE 30 May, 2013 I’m very pleased to participate in this program promoting Shenzhen’s financial industry to better serve the real economy. On behalf of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), I would like to extend my warm congratulations on the opening of Qianhai Equity Exchange (QEE).   Chinese economy has become the second largest in the world, exerting higher requirements for financial services. As China accumulates the annual savings of US$ 4 trillion, Chinese residents and institutions have skyrocketing demand for investment and wealth management. Therefore, there is abundant potential capital supply. On the other hand, China has more than 13 million small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and 34 million self-employed businesses, and numerous innovative and entrepreneurial activities expecting support from the capital market. Recently, we have held the promotional activities of “Realizing Chinese Dream and Building up an Upgraded Multi-tiered Capital Market” in different cities. The response indicates urgent need for the capital market in support of the development of real economy. They not only need support from the equity market, but are hungry for bond financing and asset securitization as well. As part of the program, we held the activity of “Entrepreneurship, Creation and Innovation–Young Chinese Dream” in universities. The capital market is important in helping young people realize their dream of “colorful life” by supporting innovative and entrepreneurial activities under the severe situation of employment.   To be compatible with China’s status as the second largest economy, both top-down financial reforms and bottom-up explorations are in need. Given the huge size, unbalanced development and complex situations of Chinese economy, we have no mature international experience to copy. It requires us to respect the pioneering spirit of the people doing basic and foundational work, protect their reform enthusiasm, and make exploration and innovation and accumulate experience with consideration of local realities. As a supplement to top-down financial reforms, China has launched pilot financial reforms in a dozen of regions, such as Shanghai, Qianhai in Shenzhen, Binhai New District in Tianjin, Chongqing, and Haixi in Fujian Province. Experience gained from such reforms has played an irreplaceable role in boosting the financial sector to serve local economy and accelerating financial reforms. Now, it is the time for us to summarize experience and overhaul the industry thoroughly. We should focus on the essence of finance with a sober mind, making sound efforts to enhance the capability of the finance sector in serving the real economy.   Since last year, several regions have been actively exploring ways to develop regional equity exchanges based on the State Council’s clean-up and standardization of various trading venues. Such exploration makes up the insufficiency of the capital market in serving local economy in a top-down approach. As an integral component of OTC markets, regional equity exchanges will help consolidate the basis of exchange markets, and draw high attention from us. To develop OTC markets, China is making up a missed lesson. Established at the very beginning as a market accessible to investors throughout the country, China’s capital market skipped over the stages of developing from a niche market to a mass market, from an OTC market to an exchange market, and from private placement to public offering. As a result, listed companies did not develop into public companies in a gradual way. Many of them did not obtain funding from OTC markets in their infancy. They did not restructure themselves and standardize their accounting practices and operation until got listed. 321 companies got listed on SZSE in 2010, and more than 70% of them completed restructuring within three years preceding the IPO. Such companies may find it difficult to adjust to the post-listing environment and thus potentially threaten the health of the market. If enterprises adopt professional services from brokers, accountants and lawyers and come under the watchful eye of sophisticated investors to improve their accounting practices and operation in their early stages, the mechanism of integrity, something that has been missing, would be established. Meanwhile, intermediaries’ participation in the OTC market will help enhance their own service quality and foster loyal clients.   Development of OTC markets will also further extend the service scope of the multi-tiered capital market to small businesses. Exchange markets have certain thresholds for enterprises to get listed. SZSE and Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) have a history of over 20 years, only 2500-plus companies got listed. Things are similar in well-established global markets—the US, a mature market, has only 5000-plus listed companies. Apparently, with the huge number of SMEs in China, the exchange market is not enough. In addition, it is difficult for investors on exchange markets to accept small businesses in early days of growth, especially tech SMEs, due to their small size and high risk. Small businesses can only obtain capital service from the OTC markets. Besides, as exchanges impose increasingly stringent disclosure and compliance requirements on listed companies, some enterprises find it unnecessary to adopt higher operation and disclosure standards and therefore may choose OTC markets instead.   How the multi-tiered capital market extends its service scope and well serves SMEs is a financial challenge worldwide. On the one hand, SMEs’ profitability is not stable and it is difficult to identify and prevent risk. On the other hand, it is difficult for intermediaries and market organizers to generate revenue as SMEs are less likely to be actively traded. The whole industry racks brains to solve these problems, and the launch of QEE is a good trial.   QEE is aimed at “becoming a market-oriented financing platform other than SZSE, SSE and commercial banks” and is dedicated to helping quoted companies raise funds through private equity, private placement bonds, etc. With such clearly defined positioning, I am confident that, as long as QEE strictly adheres to its status as a private equity market, limits financing and investment risk to selected investors and highlights “autonomous market and open rules” and “sellers fulfill due responsibilities while investors bear their own profits or losses”, the orderly operation of the market will then hinge on the self-governance and self-discipline of the market, which will effectively prevent spread of risk.   QEE also adopted an advanced service model—to integrates company display, training consultancy and financing, offering a service package to investors, including registration, custody, trading and settlement. It also attaches great importance to the application of Internet technology and provides non-standardized, customized services to selected investors through an Internet platform. In addition, it pays attention to interaction between investors and enterprises and has built an “online tribe” in which members can interact with each other. As a result, a comprehensive investment and financing service system targeting SMEs has been put in place.   23 years ago, SZSE came into existence in Shenzhen Special Economic Zone, a city that spearheaded China’s reform and opening up. At that time, no one had expected that SZSE would develop so fast and attain the current size. During the same time, SZSE also experienced many unexpected setbacks. As QEE started operation in Shenzhen today, I hope that all parties will carry forward the city’s tradition of “encouraging innovation and tolerating failure” and care for the new market as always. Today, Shenzhen boasts China’s most dynamic innovative SME groups with various financial intermediaries. Located in such fertile soil, QEE is capable to pave a new path, which will not only effectively prevent risks but also well serve SMEs, providing new investment channels for investors.  

SZSE Holds 4th “Trading Rules Day”, Pushing Forward Institutional Building in Trading
date:2013-6-6
On June 5, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) held the scheduled annual seminar of “Trading Rules Day” in Shenzhen City. Representatives were invited from China Securities Regulatory Commission, Hong Kong Stock Exchange, Taiwan Stock Exchange and some foreign investment institutions as well as domestic brokers, fund and quantitative platform companies. The theme of this year’s seminar was “New Types of Trading Behaviors and Optimization of Trading Systems”. Attendees put heads together to discuss the characteristics of new trading behaviors and issues that would incur in the supervision, building consensus for the optimization of trading systems in the next move.   In the recent years, trading mechanism, trading platform and trading supervision are confronted with new requirements and challenges in the wake of the securities markets emerged with innovative products and business, the increasingly diversified and complicated arbitrage and hedge strategies used by market players, and the new trading behaviors such as quantitative investment and algorithmic trading that have sprung up. In this year’s seminar, on the one hand, participants brainstormed to optimize trading systems based on dissection of the characteristics of new trading behaviors and the experience in overseas market development; on the other hand, they probed into the supervision challenges brought up by algorithmic trading and other complicated trading behaviors, looking for broader vision and minds for the optimization of supervision modes.   A Research Center for Trading Systems was especially established by SZSE this year, as introduced by relevant principals. It is an important move in the enforcement of institutional building of fundamental trading systems. The research center with stable personnel will conduct long-term studies in trading systems, keep track with overseas development trends, and propel the self-criticism and optimization of trading systems. Trading systems have the direct bearing on market security, efficiency and investor protection. Based on the current characteristics of multi-tiered capital markets and investor structure, SZSE would protect the legal rights and interests of all investors including mid and small cap investors sticking to the principles of “fairness, orderliness and transparency”. It will also optimize trading systems as well as supervision modes, strengthen the supervision over abnormal trading, propel intermediaries to fulfill their self-discipline responsibilities, improve investor suitability management mechanism, and lay a solid foundation for the development of multi-tiered capital markets.   It is known that SZSE will make amendments to the “Trading Rules” based on the findings from this seminar, optimizing block trade mechanism and supervision over trading behaviors.

CCTV Financial 50 Dimension Leading Indices Published Today
date:2013-6-6
Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “SSIC”) and the Financial Channel of China Central Television (hereinafter referred to as “CCTV”) recently announced that the CCTV Financial 50 Dimension Leading Indices were published on June 6 2013. All taking June 30 2010 as the base date and 2563.07 points as the base value, the indices family is consisted of the CCTV Financial 50 Innovation Index (Code: 399551, Abbreviation: CCTV Innovation), the CCTV Financial 50 Growth Index (Code: 399552, Abbreviation: CCTV Growth), the CCTV Financial 50 Return Index (Code: 399553, Abbreviation: CCTV Return), the CCTV Financial 50 Governance Index (Code: 399554, Abbreviation: CCTV Governance), and the CCTV Financial 50 Responsibility Index (Code: 399555, Abbreviation: CCTV Responsibility).   Since the listing on Shenzhen Stock Exchange in June 2012, the CCTV Financial 50 Index has been in good operational condition and smooth security management. It continues to out-perform the markets with rapid development of indexed products, earning praise from all sides. To give further play to the demonstration and guidance role of the index, the CCTV Financial 50 Dimension Leading Indices were developed by SSIC and CCTV in hands with Peking University, Renmin University of China, Fudan University, Nankai University and Central University of Finance and Economics.   The CCTV Financial 50 Dimension Leading Indices are important members in the family of the CCTV Financial 50 Indices. Adhering to the indexing concept of the CCTV Financial 50 Index, the new indices respectively selected the top 50 companies as samples based on the five investment dimensions widely accepted by the international market. The launch of the indices strengthens the “5-Dimension Evaluation System” methodology of the CCTV Financial 50 Index, and bears positive significance for listed companies’ sustainable development strategies and advocation of value investment.   As indicated by statistics, the fundamentals of the CCTV Financial 50 Dimension Leading Indices showed outstanding performance, yet representing distinct features. Their historical performance exceeded the market’s average records, yet with significant difference in risk and return characteristics. The indices family has built up an effective market benchmark for categorization of listed companies characterized by innovation, growth, return, governance and responsibility. They also provide new instruments for relevant thematic investment and indexing investment.   For details of the CCTV Financial 50 Dimension Leading Indices, please visit the website of CNINDEX (www.cnindex.com.cn).

SZSE Hosts the Capital Market Seminar for Financial Cadres in Local Governments
date:2013-5-24
----SZSE Serial Activities of “Put the Chinese Dream into Practice, Build up an Upgraded Multi-tiered Capital Market” Held in Shandong Province   On May 23, the 7th Capital Market Seminar for Financial Cadres in Local Governments, hosted by Shenzhen Stock Exchange and co-organized by Finance Office of Shandong Province and Shandong Securities Regulatory Bureau of CSRC, was held in Jinan. Chaired by Song Liping, President and CEO of SZSE, the event was attended by 370 officers from the financial and IPO authorities nationwide.   Sun Wei, member of the Standing Committee of CPC Shandong Provincial Committee and Executive Vice-governor of Shandong Province, addressed at the seminar. He said, Shandong would further improve the way of thinking about creating a sound environment, deepening the cooperation with SZSE, and giving better play to the function of capital markets. In the speech by Chen Dongzheng, Chairman of the Council of SZSE, the efforts on building consensus and forming resultant force of reform was emphasized in the development of multi-tiered capital markets. Chen also hoped that the seminars would equip financial cadres in local governments with better understanding of situation in China's capital markets development thus enhancing the capital market’s ability of servicing the real economy.   Lectures specialized in the New Third Board (a national share transfer system for small and medium-sized enterprises), futures market, regional equity exchanges, internet finance, acquisition and reorganization, and asset securitization were presented by experts and scholars including Yang Xiaojia, Board Chairman of National SME Share Transfer System Co., Ltd., Liu Xingqiang, President and CEO of Dalian Commodity Exchange, Hu Jizhi, Board Chairman of Qianhai Equity Exchange, and Chang Lin, COO of China Ping An Financial Group Financial Consulting Co., Ltd. Dialogues around the topic of “Local Financial Reform and New Measures for Serving SMEs” were deeply exchanged among principals of financial authorities from Shandong, Hubei, Shenzhen, Sichuan and Wenzhou.   The seminar is known as one of the SZSE serial activities of “Put the Chinese Dream into Practice, Build up an Upgraded Multi-tiered Capital Market”. Meanwhile, SZSE organized some other investor education activities in Shandong, such as “Know Your Shareholders – Listed Companies' Open House Program” and “Know Your Shareholders – Securities Brokers' Open House Program: Returning to Rational Investment, Planning Your Life of Wealth”. The activity of “Entrepreneurship, Creation and Innovation – My Young Chinese Dream” was held in Shandong University.

"11 Chaori Bond"to be Suspended from Listing
date:2013-5-21
As disclosed by Shanghai Chaori Solar Energy Science and Technology Co., Ltd. on May 20 2013, the company’s corporate bonds (Code: 112061, Abbreviation: 11 Chaori Bond) will be suspended from listing due to issuer’s losses for consecutive two years in 2011 and 2012, in compliance with relevant stipulations in the Rules of Shenzhen Stock Exchange for Corporate Bond Listing (2012 Revision).   The announcement also said that “11 Chaori Bond” will resume trading as of May 22 2013 and continue to trade for 30 trading days before it is officially suspended from listing on the SZSE Centralized Quotation System and Comprehensive Trading Platform for Negotiated Deals. During the period since its suspension till maturity, the principal and interest shall still be (re)paid at prescribed dates and by prescribed means according to original prospectus and relevant announcements. The issuer, trustee and parties concerned shall continue to fulfill their due duties and obligations.   It is known that there are clear stipulations for resumption of bond listing and bond delisting in the Article 6.4 and 6.5 of the Rules of Shenzhen Stock Exchange for Corporate Bond Listing (2012 Revision). For bonds being suspended from listing due to issuer’s losses for consecutive two years, if audit results for the first subsequent fiscal year disclosed within in the statutory disclosure period show profit, the issuer can file an application to SZSE for resumption of bond listing; if audit results for the first subsequent fiscal year still keep in the red, the issuer’s bonds will be delisted from SZSE.   It is also known that “11 Chaori Bond” is the third one being suspended from listing due to issuer’s losses for consecutive two years in the Shenzhen market since the suspension of 2008 Corporate Bonds of Hunan Non-ferrous Metals Holding Group Co., Ltd. (Code: 111043, Abbreviation: 08 Hunan Nonferrous Metals) and Convertible Bonds with Detachable Call Warrant of Panzhihua New Steel and Vanadium Co., Ltd. (Code: 115001, Abbreviation: Panzhihua New Steel and Vanadium Bond 1). In fact, the issuer of “11 Chaori Bond” has been disclosing risk warnings thereof ever since February this year. In the wake of the robust development in the bond market, especially the rapid expanding issue volume of credit-based bonds, investors shall fully understand the business rules associated with the bonds they invested, pay close attention to the operational risks of issuers as well as repayment risks and suspension risks of bonds, and effectively protect their own rights and interests.

Investor Structure and Characteristics of Behavioral Changes in Shenzhen Market: Evidence from Data of Recent Years
date:2013-5-15
In-depth analysis on the structure and changes of investors’ trading behaviors helps promote the reform in fundamental system of the capital market. Since 2007, SZSE has been engaged in a long-term tracking study in investor structure and behaviors. Based on the results of research, SZSE made ongoing verification, evaluation and optimization of trading rules, investor suitability management and other systems. According to 2012 statistics, there’s an overall improvement in market trading behaviors in view of the climbing rationality degree. However, mid- and small-cap retail investors are still vulnerable in the eco-sytem of the stock market.   Viewing from the changes of investor structure   First, the number of mid- and small-cap individual investors has significant increased. From 2010 to 2012, the accumulated number of accounts opened in the Shenzhen market increased from 76.25 million to 84.25 million, while the number of active accounts went up steadily from 19.38 million to 24.48 million. The year 2012 saw a lower account closing ratio per month in comparison to 2011. From 2007 to 2012, the percentage of free-float market capitalization held by individual investors decreased from 60.4% to 42.8%, but the percentage of their trading value fell relatively slower from 87.4% down to 85.6%. In general, in spite of the rising shareholding percentage of institutional investors, the proportion of individual investors will still remain high in China’s stock market in the near future, which is calling for an improvement in the trading structure.   Second, the investor structure of the ChiNext market has improved. In the ChiNext market, the percentage of free-float market capitalization holding by individual investors is getting smaller, despite of its relatively higher ratio in comparison to the main board and the SME board. From Q1 to Q4 in 2012, the percentage of free-float market capitalization holding by individual investors in the ChiNext market reduced from 71.3% to 63.4%. Individual investors in the ChiNext market tend to have higher risk tolerance, and the proportion of investors with more than two years of trading experience is increasing. The percentage of free-float market capitalization holding by institutional investors is on the rise. In short, the investor structure of the ChiNext tends toward an improvement and optimization.   Viewing from the changes of investor behaviors   First, the trading frequency of individual investors remains at a high level in general, which is revealed by the high turnover rate. Individual investors traded more frequently than institutional investors, and small-cap investors traded more frequently than large-cap investors. From 2009 to 2012, the capital turnover rates for individual investors were 8.99, 7.21, 6.35 and 6.9 respectively, while the rates for institutional investors were 3.83, 1.61, 1.41 and 1.42. Mid- and small-cap investors prefer holding and trading highly speculative stocks such as those with high P/E ratios, low-price stocks and ST stocks. The average shareholding period for individual investors was only 39.1 days, much shorter than the 190.3 days for institutional investors. Stocks with strong volatility and brisk trading were sought after by mid- and small-cap investors, which would lead to hype and speculation.   Second, investor trading behaviors improved with enhancing market rationality. From 2009 to 2012, the number of shareholding days for individual investors increased from 31.9 days to 39.1 days. Small-cap investors’ engagement tends to be matched with the risk structure of products. Data indicated that ChiNext is less attractive to individual investors in comparison with main board and SME board in general. For individual investors with relatively stronger risk tolerance, ChiNext is preferred in comparison to the main board. To some extent, the efforts on investor suitability management and relevant risk disclosure dropped the mid- and small-cap individual investors’ engagement in the ChiNext market.   What calls for our attention is that mid- and small-cap individual investors are still vulnerable in the ecological structure of stock market, which is revealed by their higher loss rate and lower return on investment. The smaller capital they have, the lower rate of return. Individual investors with capital less than CNY100, 000 showed the lowest return on investment.   Meanwhile, there’s a way to go in the aspects of diversification of institutions and differentiation of investment styles. Currently, the percentage of institutional shareholding is on the rise, and the coexistence of diverse organizations with distinctive investment styles has formed. However, the major institutions are still fund companies and ordinary institutions, which accounted for more than 90% in the market capitalization holding by institutional investors in 2012. The engagement of social security funds, insurance agencies and QFIIs was much lower in the Shenzhen market, accounting for 1.6%, 1.9% and 1.3% respectively in market capitalization holding by institutional investors in 2012. Some institutions have similar investment styles.   Generally speaking, in market infrastructure construction, efforts should focus on increasing the engagement of different institutional investors, effectively guiding investors’ investment behaviors, and enhancing the differentiation of investment style and products. SZSE will continue to deepen the analysis of investor structure and behaviors, keep up the exploration and innovation in market supervision and service to meet the diversified and differentiated demands of investors, especially mid- and small-cap investors, laying a better foundation for the full play of the multi-tiered capital market.

Speech by Song Liping, President & CEO of SZSE at the Brokerage Innovation Conference 2013
date:2013-5-14
8th May, 2013 Since the first Brokerage Innovation Conference last year, SZSE has been promoting market reform and innovation. I would like to focus on some of our experience in participating in market innovation and development over the past years.   First of all, Chinese capital market shoulders heavy responsibilities and urgent task in serving transition of real economy.   The task of accelerating economic transition and upgrading in China is urgent, as reflected in the situation of our listed companies. According to the annual reports and statistics, the structural changes of listed companies and the cultivation of core competitiveness are still insufficient. Among the S&P 500 constituents, traditional industries and finance that are sensitive to economic cycle account for only 25.6% of the market value. Technology and consumer sectors account for 58.4%, and their earnings are almost independent from the economic cycle. In contrast, listed companies in China are traditional industries-oriented, and the development of high-tech, modern services and consumer sectors lag behind. By the end of 2011, in A-share markets of Shanghai and Shenzhen, listed companies in economic cycle-sensitive industries numbered 1316, accounted for 53.2% of A-share companies and their market value accounted for 52.6%. Such industries include finance, real estate, petrochemicals, electronics, metal products, machinery and equipment. The earnings of these companies fluctuate severely with the economic cycle. Over the past 10 years, the S&P 500 non-financial enterprises maintained an ROE around 18-25%. The ROE of listed companies in China reached its highest point of 14.7% in 2007. Last year, the number was only 12.5% (8.6% in Shenzhen), and it was 9.3% (8.4% in Shenzhen) for non-financial enterprises. Listed companies are outstanding representatives of Chinese enterprises. The issues such as unreasonable industrial structure and lack of core competitiveness might be more prominent in real economy.   As a result, lot of work remains to be done to meet the actual demands of enterprises and enable the capital market to better serve the real economy. Firstly, we shall accelerate mergers and acquisitions by listed companies to enhance competitiveness. Secondly, we shall improve the quality potential issuers, extend the coverage of capital market significantly, improve the market screening capability and expand access to capital market for different types of enterprises and projects. We shall not let the growth enterprises and projects fall down in front of the threshold of capital market. This requires a range of innovation in institutional arrangement, financial products and platforms. Over the past year, the industry has done a lot of innovative work in serving the real economy, such as establishment of the OTC market, increasing input in mergers and acquisitions, launching SME private bonds, and developing equity pledge financing business. However, there is still a long way to go and still more efforts are required before demands of real economy are met.   Secondly, innovation in capital market will inevitably face more risks and challenges and it requires particular attention to current situation.   Fostering new industries and innovative enterprises involves trials and errors. NASDAQ is a model market serving high-tech and emerging industries. During its development of over 40 years, it fostered leading enterprises such as Apple and Microsoft, but it experienced radical rises and falls as well. In early 1985, NASDAQ had 4097 listed companies, and 11,820 companies got listed from 1985 to 2008. Over the same period, the total number of delisted companies was 12,965, exceeding that of companies getting listed. During this period of time, a huge OTC market (OTCBB and Pink Sheets) retained nearly ten thousand listed companies, becoming an incubator and a pipeline for NASDAQ. Around the dotcom bubble burst in 2000, the NASDAQ Composite Index fell from more than 5400 to over 1200. Even Microsoft and Apple experienced sharp stock price fluctuations where the highest prices were 660 and 510 times higher than their lowest prices respectively. On the one hand, it requires failure tolerance. On the other hand, it brings severe test to securities companies on risk control capability.   The Chinese economy is in its transition period in terms of growth speed, development model and institutional arrangements. Various contradictions, imbalances, discordance and lack of sustainability become increasingly prominent. Innovation will definitely encounter risks and we are facing more risks and uncertainties under current circumstances. Macro-level and enterprise-level risks will transmit into investment banking, asset management and other business areas. If we take into account competitive pressure both inside and outside the industry and weak risk control, innovation is a real challenge and its associated risk deserves more attention. If major problems ever occur, market confidence will be lost and client trust will be ruined. Furthermore, such scenarios will significantly narrow the development space of securities companies, may negatively affect market reforms and innovation and ruin the opportunity for development in the industry again, which would be tantamount to a collective degeneration of the whole industry.   Thirdly, in order to do better in risk prevention in the process of innovation, we must rely on market players and lay due emphasis on the work in three areas.   The regulators and the securities industry have attached great importance to risk prevention during the process of innovation, carried out many explorations and accumulated valuable experiences in the past year. To solve the problem, we should continue to promote market-oriented reforms and fully rely on market players. Thus we can stimulate the vitality of the market and at the same time prevent market risks. In terms of risk prevention, three items requires our due attention.   First we should enhance practice standards and internal control mechanisms of securities companies. The transition of the real economy has raised higher requirements for the capital market. The key for risk prevention is whether securities companies can enhance their brokerage practices and cultivate their internal control culture. Securities companies shoulder great responsibilities and should have the awareness of seizing and treasuring opportunities.   At present, despite the high enthusiasm, securities companies should focus on fundamental mechanisms and products, build their basic strengths in due diligence inspection and internal control, forge their advantages in basic products, and cultivate their own clients and products. Only quality services can win the trust of clients and make securities companies fully perform their function as “bridging two parties” intermediaries. As the IPO financial special inspection indicates, there is still space for improvement in due diligence inspections. The establishment of the new National SME share transfer system and the OTC market as well as the innovation of new products will be more dependent on the quality of securities companies’ due diligence inspection which is the reference for market players to assess risks.   The internal control of securities companies is the frontier for risk prevention. The internal control mechanism involves the perfection of institutional systems and also the cultivation of corporate culture. We must keep up with the rapid development of innovative businesses.   Second we should strengthen self-regulation. In the supervisory framework consisting of self-regulatory, administrative and judicial measures, self-regulation can adapt to market change fastest and thus it reduces supervision cost. Strengthening self-regulation also serves as the premise of reducing administrative interference and unleashing market vitality. Without effective self-regulatory mechanism, introduction of rigid administrative supervision would be necessary, and the space for market innovation will be compressed.   The IPO reform carried out last year proves that the Investment Banking Committee of Securities Association can better play role in extended dimensions, promoting the reform in supervision over sponsor institutions and price inquiry agencies.   In the future, we are faced with heavier pressure for industry supervision over product innovations. Self-regulation can utilize the professional resources, form timely industry standards and make flexible adjustments and thus win time for follow-up administrative supervision and open new space for innovations with the precondition of risk prevention.   Third, we must investor suitability management. Securities companies know investors best. The strengthening of suitability management enables us to achieve a reasonable allocation of risks among different types of investors, and this serves as the micro-foundation for the capital market to effectively resolve the real-economy shocks. Investor suitability management is also a safeguard ex ante for regulating client behavior and maintaining market order, which is particularly important for market and product innovations. The problems exposed in the bond market recently also remind us that client management for intermediaries should not be neglected.   While financial innovation offers more choices and convenience for investors and issuers, it also makes the transfer of benefits easier and more subtle. In order to win social acceptance and reach a sustainable development, innovations must stick to the basic requirement of compliance with laws and regulations.   Since last year, innovative businesses have experienced fast development. Securities companies should understand the prospects for innovation and the far-reaching impact to their business model and revenue restructuring. Securities companies should make determination to give up short-term benefits for the long-term goal, pay more attention to the suitability management, and build a safeguard mechanism for innovation development.   At present, China has entered a critical period for deepening reforms and restructuring its development model. Securities industry is also in a key period of innovation and development. We should be aware that it is not easy to cultivate innovative businesses. From the external perspective, the improvement of laws and regulations, supervisory methods and trading systems is needed; from the internal perspective, securities companies need to do better in organizational structure, incentive mechanism, R&D capability building, technology system, client base, sales network, risk control and human resources cultivation. Thus we should never haste in such a process. Instead, we should start from seemingly trivial matters, establish a good reputation for the securities industry and reinforce market confidence. With the high-level attention of securities companies and the joint efforts from relevant parties, we can make breakthroughs in industry innovation and thus enables the capital market to play its due role in the economic and social transition.

Equitable Treatment of Shareholders and Protection of Mid- and Small-cap Investors
date:2013-5-3
Speech by Song Liping. President & CEO of SZSE at the annual Forum of China Securities Law Research Society 22nd April, 2013   Investor protection is an eternal topic for the securities market. It is also a subject of intense interest for colleagues from the Securities Law Research Society. With development in the capital market and improvement in rule of law, research in investor protection will go into depths and various disputes and debates will surface. A prominent controversy is whether the advocacy of protection of mid- and small-cap investors goes against the fundamental principle of equitability in the securities market, and whether it is contrary to the equitable treatment of shareholders provided in the Company Law? I would like to elaborate on my understanding of the issue.   I. The meaning of equitable treatment of shareholders The equitable treatment of shareholders is a fundamental principle for investor protection, permeating in all aspects of the Company Law and the Securities Law. The equitability principle, so to speak, refers to the equitable treatment of shareholders according to the nature, content and amount of shareholdings and safeguards against unfair and inequitable treatment on the basis of relationships between the company and shareholders and between different shareholders.   It is specifically prescribed in Chapter II of Principles of Corporate Governance issued by OECD in May, 1995. “The corporate governance framework should ensure the equitable treatment of all shareholders, including minority and foreign shareholders. All shareholders should have the opportunity to obtain effective redress for violation of their rights.” China’s Company Law has not raised the concept of equitable treatment of shareholders, but the essence has been reflected in various provisions. For example, Article 127 prescribes that “the shares of the same class shall have the same rights and benefits and the shares issued at the same time shall be equal in price and shall be subject to the same conditions.” Article 104 Section 1 promulgates “one voting right for each share” and Article 187 Section 2 stipulates the residual assets should be “distributed according to the proportions of capital contributions by the shareholders”.   From the perspective of legal principles, the equitable treatment of shareholders should include the following aspects:   First, all shareholders have equal legal personality and their rights based on the shareholding are the same in nature and type.   Second, all shareholders have the same legitimate right to expect income accrued from the assets they have invested in and such right is under legal protection.   Third, in corporate practice, there may be differences in the status of exercising shareholders ’rights. But such differences can change according to voluntary increase or decrease of shareholdings.   Fourth, controlling shareholders shall not seek, by any special means, benefits other than those from share ownership. Nor shall Controlling shareholders by any means make up for their own share losses solely and unilaterally.   Accordingly some people may interpret the equitability principle as “all shareholders are created equal regardless of the sizes of shareholding.” Therefore we should not only protect the interests of mid- and small-cap shareholders but also major shareholders. They especially emphasize the importance of protecting the interests of state-owned assets accordingly. So is the equitable principle in contradiction to our advocacy of protecting the interests of mid- and small-cap shareholders? To answer this question, first and foremost it is necessary to clarify meaning of equitability in form and substance.   For its meaning in form, the equitable treatment of shareholders basically refers to equality of shares. This can be understood in two layers: on the one hand, all shares within the same class of issuance bear the same content and benefits; and on the other hand, shareholders in possession of the same type and amount of shares shall enjoy equal treatment prescribed by legal relationships based upon shareholdings. In line with the equitability of shares, the company should take a neutral, fair and detached position and show no preference or prejudice for or against any shareholder in possession of the same content and amount of shares.   For its meaning in substance, the equitable treatment of shareholders does not imply absolute and formal equality, but relative and material equitability. The equitable treatment of shareholders does not prohibit all inequitable treatments indiscriminately; instead, it prohibits inequitable treatments without proper reasons. The reason we advocate the protection of mid- and small-cap investors lies in the fact that mid- and small-cap investors are subject to plundering and undermining by controlling shareholders and insiders. The necessity for state-owned asset shareholders to require legal and regulatory protection depends on whether they have been treated inequitably. For instance, are there cases for insiders to plunder state-owned assets, related party transactions or transfer of benefits to detriment of shareholders of state-owned assets? At same time, it depends on the seriousness and pervasiveness of the inequitable treatments.   II. The balance between equitable treatment of shareholders and protection of minority investors The capital majority rule is a fundamental principle of the Company Law. According to the capital majority rule, shareholders have voting power proportional to the shares they own. The law presumes the intention of the major shareholders is tantamount to the intention of the company. In fact, once the will of the controlling shareholders become the resolution of shareholders’ general meeting, it is binding to all minority shareholders.   The evolution of capital majority rule is an inevitable historical process. The autonomy of private law, the legal person theory and the freedom of exercising shareholder rights have laid the theoretical foundation for the capital majority rule. But for a quite a long time in the past, the rule has been abused and dogmatized, resulting inaccessibility to legal redress for minority shareholders when the company’s or their own interests are violated. As in the well-known Foss v.Harbottle case in the UK, the controlling shareholders are the final decision makers for bringing up in a lawsuit against relevant culprits in the name of the company or setting it aside.   After realizing the abuses of the capital majority rule, many countries have strengthened the legal remedy to protect minority investors. The German court adopts the provisions for violation of good morals in Articles 138 and 826 of German Civil Code, which intervenes in the abuse of the capital majority rule and construes the decision of the general meeting invalid if it is “for major shareholders to squeeze money out of minority shareholders and against good morals”. German legal community has reached a consensus to the problem by adopting the “abuse of power” theory. In the UK, in trying to curb abuse of the capital majority rule, people developed the theory of “scam of power”. And in US, the “fiduciary duty theory” is widely accepted to interpret this phenomenon. In China, the provisions in Article 20 of the Company Law can be considered as restraint to the capital majority rule. “The shareholders of a company shall comply with the laws, administrative regulations and articles of association, and shall exercise the shareholder's rights according to law. None of them shall infringe on any of the interests of the company or of other shareholders by abusing the shareholder's rights, or injure the interests of any creditor of the company by abusing the independent status of legal person or the shareholder's limited liabilities.”   The exercise of the capital majority rule is also related to deeper legal issues involved investor protection, that is, relationship between the equitability and the fairness principles. If capital majority rule were adopted for companies with shareholders of similar amount of shareholdings or with dispersed ownership of shares, it would create a situation where equitability equals fairness. However, in China, listed companies feature single dominant shareholder and wide participation by a huge number of mid- and small-cap investors. Under such circumstances, if we were to dogmatize the capital majority rule, the equitability in form would lead to an inequitable result in substance. There are large gaps in shareholding and consequently voting power between major shareholders and mid- and small-cap shareholders. If we were to measure “equitability” by the same standards and in the same dimensions, we would be implementing absolute and indiscriminate “equality.” It is very likely that the result will go opposite to our expectations.   Therefore, protection of minority shareholders and the capital majority rule are not in contradiction. The capital majority rule is premise for the company’s existence and operation. It is power source to sustain investment and growth. As we advocate the protection of mid- and small-cap shareholders, we should not deny the controlling power of major shareholders in decision-making processes. Otherwise we would be threatening the institutional foundation of the modern corporate system. However, we should not put the capital majority rule in an absolute unshakable position. As long as there is evidence of major shareholders abusing their voting power to the detriment of the company or minority shareholders, the law shall specify reasonable exceptions to restrain the capital majority rule by such mechanisms as related shareholder challenge system, cumulative voting and special voting mechanism for minority shareholders. Thus we can ease the conflicts of interest between major shareholders and minority shareholders and render special legal protection and remedies for the disadvantaged party in the capital market.   III．Exact Connotation of Mid- and small-cap Investor Protection People often equate mid- and small-cap investor protection with restraining major shareholders’ rights. It seems that the interest of major shareholders has been put against that of their smaller counterparts. It is not only intellectually unreasonable but also harmful in practice to theorize on this misconception and treat it as a new normal. Such terms as “single dominant shareholder, controlling shareholder or de facto controller” emerge in situations of concentrated ownership. However, these terms should be understood as neutral concepts. In terms of original legal status as well as rights and obligations, major shareholders or de facto controllers should be treated equally as mid- and small-cap shareholders, justifying no special protection or special regulation. This is the meaning of equality of shareholders in form.   At the same time, however, we must pay attention to possible non-compliance and motivations for benefit transfer in situation of ownership concentration dominated by single major shareholder. According to Controlling Shareholders and Corporate Governance: Complicating the Taxonomy by Ronald Gilson, an American professor, major shareholders and de facto controllers tend to make profits by sacrificing interests of mid- and small-cap investors in emerging and transitional markets where rule of law and investors redress are not well developed. Therefore, the advocacy for protection of mid- and small-cap investors aims to restore the normal status of “equitable treatment of shareholders” rather than discrimination against major shareholders. This is the meaning of equality of shareholders in substance.   As a result, protection does not mean privileging mid- and small-cap investors in China. The purpose of protection is to close the gap and restore fairness between the two groups. For instance, major shareholders often by-pass mid- and small-cap shareholders in reaching resolutions which are ironically legally binding to the latter. Major shareholders have complete control over changes of corporate information and rhythms of information disclosure. Mid and small-cap investors are only at the mercy of issuers’ information disclosure quality and have to make decisions accordingly. Furthermore, such gaps of treatment exist while major shareholders are abiding by laws and ethical standards. If major shareholders purposely engage in irregular practices, the result of the game will be obvious. The last straw of fairness is judicial relief, which is not an optimistic expectation either. Major shareholders who ignore integrity obligations and infringe on mid and small-sized investors’ interests are not always subject to legal sanction. The probability of being caught is not high and the cost of violation is low. On the contrary, mid- and small-sized investors are faced with prohibitively high cost and hurdles in seeking judicial relief.   Protection of mid- and small-cap investors is not to give them special privileges, but to return to the normal state of safeguarding investors’ interests, protecting their legal rights in aspects of information, fair trade, dividend, proposal, voting and judicial relief. Protection involves provision of a more relaxed, convenient and effective environment for mid- and small-cap investors to exercise these rights. Besides, protective measures should be geared toward overcoming the inherent vulnerabilities of this group, for instance, weak risk awareness, under-equipped self-protection and herd behaviors. Necessary training, warning, and reminder are necessary. Thus, the protection of mid- and small-cap investors is not to limit or infringe on major investors’ interests. Nor is it a simple division of interest or win-lose game. It is in the benefit of companies, major investors and the entire capital market to foster a rational and mature group of mid- and small-cap investors.   IV. Judicial relief is the key point Of course, we should not go to the other extreme to limit major investors in order to protect mid- and small-cap investors. Under the current shareholding structure, major shareholders and long-term strategic shareholders bear greater risks and responsibilities. It is more flexible for mid- and small-cap shareholders to access and exit companies in response to changing business and risk profiles. However, major shareholders have to be bound by the long-term business strategy of companies. Thus, it stands to reason that the law permits greater power of speech and decision making for major shareholders. However we should bring our attention to minority shareholders’ accessibility to legal relief and efficiency of execution when major shareholders abuse their controlling power and willfully harm minority investors’ interests. In mature markets, such reliefs are achieved through subsequent judicial processes, rather than changing the rules of the game in advance. And such judicial reliefs are decisive and effective, forming credible deterrence to major shareholders. In China, minority shareholders have limited access to judicial relief and law suits against major shareholders and de facto controllers are few and far in between. Thus, the front-end control against major shareholders’ abuse of power has been continuously moved forward. Executive and self-regulatory organizations are playing the roles of judicial authorities. Although innovative efforts have been made in Chinese regulations and rules, such as signing major shareholder commitment declaration and issuing guidelines to de facto controllers, these self-disciplinary constraints are not effective for major shareholders in bad faith. Administrative law enforcement is compromised by the burden of proof, thus it is difficult to root out the backstage manipulator. In many cases, punishment can only reach corporate executives and listed companies themselves. Under some circumstances, the executives might be the “scapegoat” of the de facto controllers and punishment to listed companies bring harms to mid- and small cap investors as well. What’s more, such punishments and sanctions occur after exposure of serious issues. Listed companies and minority investors have already suffered from the consequences of such violations. Therefore, from the perspective of protecting mid- and small-cap investors, what is in great need is a mechanism to enable mid- and small-cap investors to participate in corporate governance in ex-ante and during the course of the event. They should be able to raise proposals in general meetings of shareholders, execute collective voting power, nominate their representatives and sue the major shareholders or companies to halt illegal behaviors, protect themselves and demand compensation. China still lacks systematic implementation of such judicial rules as accustomed to in international community. Though the laws and regulation exist, more is expected of their enforcement.    

SZSE Initiates Immediate Response to Earthquake in Sichuan
date:2013-4-22
SZSE initiated contingency plans to maintain sound financial services and safe stable market operation immediately after earthquake struck Lushan County of Ya’an, Sichuan Province on Saturday April 20, 2013. SZSE made immediate contacts with Sichuan Branch Office of China Securities Regulatory Commission for information about the disaster. SZSE also promptly contacted listed companies in Sichuan Province and assisted in assessing damages and disclosing related information about disaster consequences over corporate business. Thanks to concerted efforts, all 55 listed companies in Sichuan have released disaster announcements as of Sunday April 21. SZSE’s Membership Supervision Department implemented safety checks on securities companies’ communication lines to ensure normal communication according to the contingency plan. Meanwhile　SZSE, along with the Sichuan Branch Office of CSRC, set up a special hotline to keep abreast with the earthquake’s aftermath over listed companies and securities institutions in Sichuan Province and provide relevant and timely assistance. SZSE staff, concerned about the earthquake disaster in Sichuan, have started donations to assist disaster relief effort in Sichuan. SZSE will actively participate in earthquake relief and reconstruction works in response to national calls for action. SZSE will join the people in disaster-stricken areas in overcoming difficulties and braving the hardship.

SZSE Revises the Appraisal Measures for Information Disclosure of Listed Companies
date:2013-4-15
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) made amendments to the Appraisal Measures for Information Disclosure of Listed Companies (hereinafter referred to as the Appraisal Measures) recently, in a move to improve the quality of information disclosure, propel regulated operations of listed companies, intensify the daily supervision over listed companies, and promote the construction of the market-oriented operation mechanism which rewards the good and fines the bad.   Dating back to its amendments to the Appraisal Measures in November 2011, SZSE put forward for the first time the thought of introducing quantitative appraisal, which combined the rating of daily announcements and objective indicators, and putting in self-evaluation of listed companies. The move aimed at objective appraisal criteria, transparent appraisal process and impartial appraisal results.   In light of the crucial and fundamental role of information disclosure appraisal in the daily supervision over listed companies and in response to the new requirements brought in by changing market situations, SZSE launched the amendment work to the Appraisal Measures once again in December 2012. During this amendment, SZSE had solicited public opinions from listed companies for two times successively, receiving 558 feedbacks in total. The feedbacks were of high value to SZSE and were sorted by categories, thoroughly discussed and adopted.   The major amendments are summarized as follows:   1. Strengthening the appraisal of listed companies’ efforts on Information Disclosure Express Practice. The Information Disclosure Express Pilot Practice was kicked off by SZSE in October 2011 and pushed forward into overall promotion in February 2013. It was designed to enhance information disclosure efficiency and urge market players to perform their due responsibilities. To ensure its smooth implementation, SZSE put forward a newly revised computer system for information disclosure and opened a special zone for online business. The system would prompt business rules for reference and disclosure key points to be abided by, and request listed companies to choose the right categories, input relative business parameters and comply with relevant rules and points. In this way, information disclosure quality could be ensured and errors occurred in trading suspension and resumption or ex-dividend activities could be reduced. Relevant appraisals on this part are added in the amendments.   2.  Strengthening the appraisal of listed companies’ performance of obligations in fair disclosure. A new section named “Investor Relations” has been launched on the website of Easy IR since August 2012 for the purpose of regulating listed companies’ activities in investor relations management and giving adequate protection for the fair rights to access to information of minority shareholders. Listed companies are requested to make investor relation activities public on the website of Easy IR in a timely manner, including institutional investor researches, media interviews, roadshows and other activities oriented to specific parties. Relevant appraisals on this part are included in the amendments to ensure listed companies make timely disclosure about such activities.   3. Strengthening the appraisal of listed companies’ fulfillment of commitments made on cash dividend payment. Listed companies’ fulfillment of commitments made on cash dividend payment has been included in the amendment for the purpose of strengthening listed companies’ awareness of investor return as so to urge them to pay cash dividend as they have promised. This part focuses on whether listed companies’ disclosed schemes of profit distribution and bonus shares from capital reserve are consistent with relevant laws and regulations, their profit distribution policies and plans, shareholder long-term return plans and their commitments made.     4. Defining listed companies’ self-evaluation in information disclosure. The revised appraisal measures make clear that listed companies shall declare personally whether their information disclosures are against the 40 objective indicators included in the measures instead of grading their self-evaluation.   5. Adding some appraisal indicators based on regulatory practice. The newly-added indicators are used to evaluate whether listed companies have their imposed risk warning and listing suspension reported and disclosed accurately, have their internal control self-evaluation report compiled and disclosed as stipulated, and have their financial accounting report corrected within prescribed time when material accounting errors or false records are contained in the report and correction is required by regulatory authority.  As introduced by relevant principal from SZSE, information disclosure appraisal results have been applied in systematic innovation and practical regulation in Information Disclosure Express Practice and regulatory risk appraisal. Only those companies with good appraisal results are able to get access to the Express Practice and their market reputation will accordingly be greatly enhanced. For companies with poor appraisal results, SZSE will, centering on their weakness and risks lying in different aspects, adopt pertinent measures to intensify regulation on them. In addition, information disclosure appraisal results serve as an important proof when SZSE issues continuing regulatory opinions in respect of listed companies’ refinancing, equity incentive and restructuring through merger and acquisition in order to reinforce the role of market binding mechanism. It is foreseeable that listed companies’ integrity records and information disclosure appraisal results will tie more closely with the companies’ future development in capital market.

Shenzhen Stock Exchange Hosts the 31st AOSEF General Assembly
date:2013-4-11
The Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) hosted the 31st General Assembly of the Asian and Oceanian Stock Exchanges Federation (AOSEF) in Shenzhen from April 9th through 11th, 2013. The General Assembly was opened by Madam Song Liping, President and CEO of SZSE. Mr. Chen Dongzheng, Chairman of SZSE, made opening remarks.   Around 50 local and international delegates, including chairmen and chief executives, from 14 exchanges in the Asian and Oceania region gathered together for the meeting. With a focal theme of exploring new dimensions of development, the major agenda topics included contributions exchanges can make to bond markets in Asia, exchange business models from the perspective of demutualization, consolidation, and business domain, and the relationship between foreign investment and globalized exchanges. The 31st General Assembly admitted the Gre Tai Securities Market as a new member, made amendments to the AOSEF charter, and adopted new internal rules.   In his opening speech, Mr. Chen Dongzheng emphasized the importance of cooperation between and among AOSEF exchanges for common development. Mr. Huseyin Erkan, CEO of the World Federation of Exchanges, talked about cooperation between the two federations.   AOSEF meets annually and the General Assembly is hosted by each member stock exchange in rotation. The previous General Assembly was held in Sydney, Australia. The 32nd AOSEF General Assembly will be hosted by Bombay Stock Exchange and National Stock Exchange of India.   The exchanges which took part in the 31st AOSEF General Assembly in Shenzhen included:   Exchanges GreTai Securities Market Bursa Malaysia Hanoi Stock Exchange National Stock Exchange of India Hochiminh Stock Exchange The Philippine Stock Exchange Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Shanghai Stock Exchange Indonesia Stock Exchange Shenzhen Stock Exchange Japan Exchange Group Taiwan Stock Exchange Korea Exchange The Stock Exchange of Thailand Observers China Financial Futures Exchange AIMS Financial Group   About AOSEF   The Asian and Oceanian Stock Exchanges Federation (AOSEF) consists of 18 member exchanges in the Asian and Oceanian region. It began informally in 1982 as the East Asian Stocks Exchanges Conference (EASEC) and in 1990, with the adoption of a charter, it was formalized and renamed the East Asian and Oceanian Stock Exchanges Federation (EAOSEF). In 2005, with the expansion of its geographical boundaries allowing two Indian stock exchanges to become members, the organization was renamed Asian and Oceanian Stock Exchanges Federation (AOSEF). Today the objectives of AOSEF are to exchange information and to promote mutual assistance among its members with regards to the development of the securities markets in the region. More information about AOSEF can be found at: www.aosef.org.   About SZSE   Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE), established on 1st December, 1990, is one of the two stock exchanges in China’s mainland. SZSE is committed to developing a multi-tiered capital market for companies of different business models and at different stages of development. Currently SZSE consists of four market segments: the Main Board, SME Board, ChiNext Market and the OTC market. SZSE has 1538 listed companies (29 March, 2013), 70% of which are SMEs and growth enterprises. SZSE has been actively promoting international communication and cooperation. By the end of 2012, SZSE had signed MOUs with 30 major stock exchanges and institutions worldwide. SZSE is also member of the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) and an affiliate member of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). For more information about SZSE, please visit www.szse.cn/main/en/.

SZSE Held Training Session for Controlling Shareholders and De Facto Controllers of Main Board Listed Companies
date:2013-4-9
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) kicked off the 9th session of training courses for controlling shareholders and de facto controllers of main board listed companies recently. The series of courses aim on the one hand to further regulate behavior of controlling shareholders and de facto controllers of listed companies, and on the other to provide pertinent protection for the legal rights and interests of listed companies and minority shareholders. Over 90 attendees from 29 listed companies participated in the training program. They were all controlling shareholders, de facto controllers, board chairmen or senior executives of listed companies. These issuers have recently completed, are in the process of changing de facto controllers or have just been granted approval for listing resumption.   At the opening ceremony, relevant person in charge from SZSE made an introduction to the current delisting system reform, the promotion of mergers and acquisitions, the improvement of the internal control system, the prevention of and crackdown on insider trading, and other focal points of work. He pointed out that a public listed company shall shoulder more responsibilities and obligations than private firms. First, listed companies should cherish their listing status and adapt to the change of the new role as soon as possible. They shall perform responsibilities and duties and exercise their controlling rights in good faith. Second, all laws and regulations in the capital markets should be absolutely observed with respect. Listed companies shall study, understand and abide by laws, putting an end to irregular practices. Third, listed companies should treat all shareholders especially minority shareholders with gratitude. Controlling shareholders and de facto controllers shall never infringe on the interests of minority shareholders or the listed company by abusing their controlling status.   The training session also made specific interpretations to corporate governance, legal liabilities of de facto controllers, the code of conduct concerning information disclosure and stock trading for controlling shareholders and de facto controllers of listed companies through the representation of typical cases of irregularities in information disclosure, buying and selling shares against the rules, and insider trading.

Speech at the Second Lingnan Forum
date:2013-4-2
Song Liping, President & CEO of SZSE Guangzhou 31st March 2013   It is an urgent task to tackle excess capacity and promote structural readjustment in background of slowing economic growth this year. The Government Work Report proposed that policy guidance be offered to encourage cross-sector, inter-regional and cross-ownership mergers and acquisitions and promote winnowing power of the market. It is enterprises that actually implement mergers, acquisitions and restructuring. In recent years, there have been a growing number of listed companies with continuous expansion of asset scale and improvement in asset quality. Listed companies, representing leading enterprises, are well equipped to become the driving force for corporate mergers and acquisitions. Capital markets should serve as important basic platform in this process. First, while providing services for issuers in corporate restructuring, listing and fund-raising, the capital market makes corporate assets liquid. As a result, the capital market plays an irreplaceable role in tapping idle assets, optimizing resource allocation and developing industrial layout. Second, as a market for corporate mergers and acquisitions, the capital market provides price signals for scientific decision-making. It also offers products and tools that greatly reduce cost and diversify risk. In particular, stock-for-stock M&A builds a coordination mechanism for sharing risk and profit, providing a sound basis of joined interests. Furthermore, being highly transparent and sensitive to price signals, the capital markets can effectively enhance the efficacy of policies for mergers and acquisitions and expose problems in a timely manner. Thanks to long-term rapid economic growth, a large number of high-quality companies have frog-leapt in business growth. At present, China has entered a crucial stage in economic transition. And the same is true for industrial consolidation and corporate mergers and acquisitions. The capital strategy based upon corporate mergers and acquisitions has become increasingly advantageous. And capital markets will play an increasingly important role in facilitating mergers and acquisitions. There is a great potential for consolidation in competitive industries. Competitive industries in China are highly fragmented with many small firms scattered in different regions. Despite large-scale consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry, the number of firms increased from 3,352 in 2003 to around 6,000 at present. The top 10 pharmaceutical firms account for only 15% of the market share while 70% of pharmaceutical enterprises report less than 30 million yuan (USD 4.8 million) in annual sales revenue. At the same time, the number of cases involving cross-border mergers and acquisitions has increased. A-share listed companies have implemented more than 370 cross-border mergers and acquisitions since 2000. After the financial crisis, the ability of a number of Chinese enterprises to integrate overseas resources has become even more evident. Thanks to the appreciation of the Renminbi and downward valuation of overseas asset, outbound M&As are increasingly active. External environment and conditions have become congenial for the capital markets to fully perform its function to facilitate mergers and acquisitions. At the enterprise level, the Government Work Report points out that China’s productive forces features a multi-level nature and there are potentials for development in all sectors ranging from the traditional to emerging industries, from labor-intensive is capital-intensive businesses. Traditional motives for M&A include economies of scale, access to client base, marketing channels, market access, brand advantage and resources. However in emerging industries such as the Internet, software, biomedical technology, M&As are mainly motivated by pursuits of technology and talents. At the same time, with increasing sophistication in industrial development, competition has intensified. Complacency is no longer sustainable. Size and competitiveness are not only a matter of development but also a survival issue. Private entrepreneurs are becoming more willing to sell stakes. At the industry level, most competitive industries are experiencing high incidence of M&As. Within these industries, there are an increasing number of companies with abilities to initiate M&As and an increasing number of worthy targets. The general industry-standard is on the increase, providing good opportunities for companies with competitive advantages to expand through M&As . At the market level: historical studies of overseas M&A indicate that capital market development and financial innovation spawns mergers and acquisitions. Investment banks constitute a core force in cultivating the M&A market. Along with rapid development in the M&A market, domestic investment banks are shifting business focus and product innovation toward the M&A market. In recent years, driven by the diversified channels of equity investment exit, the private equity funds have intensified M&A activity. Statistics indicate that number of VC/PE-related M&As rose from 36 in 2006 to 208 in 2012. Dedicated buyout funds have emerged. At the institutional level, State Council issued the Opinions on Promoting Corporate Mergers and Acquisitions in 2010 and 12 ministries jointly issued Guidelines on Corporate Mergers and Acquisitions to Accelerate Key Industries early this year. Relevant authorities carried out fruitful work in promoting corporate M&As, eliminating institutional hurdles, enhancing fiscal and taxation policies, expanding financial support, improving land-use administration, facilitating debt restructuring and reemployment of laid-off workers. Since last year, China Securities Regulatory Commission has further stepped up efforts in promoting audit transparency, improving audit efficiency, establishing supportive financing mechanisms for mergers and acquisitions and implementing comprehensive prevention and control measures against insider trading and exploring separated evaluation system for M&As. These efforts have produced very positive effects in the short term. Policy of Institutional Reforms and Functional Fransition of the State Council proposed reduction in centralized control and further delegation of powers. It is hoped that institutional hurdles holding back corporate mergers and acquisitions will be removed. Capital markets should seize the current favorable opportunity, promote mergers and acquisitions and to build fresh momentum for market development. In reforming supportive policies for capital markets, we should focus on two issues:: Firstly, we should take an accommodative attitude and market-based approach to all types of M&As. We should refrain from setting performance standards for M&As according to a priori or limited experiences. Nor should we decide to “support” certain types of M&As based upon such judgments. The factors determining success of M&As are very complex. Even the same type of M&As may have different results in different enterprises. The key is to emphasize the role of self-restraint mechanism of the capital market and give full play to its efficiency. Secondly, we should shift our focus from risk prevention to facilitating M&As. Corresponding adjustments need to be made in M&A rules, transaction pricing mechanism, payment instruments, financing tools and information disclosure. In the past, the capital market used to focus on reorganization for the sake of shell preservation. And the regulation used to emphasize safeguarding the interests of the investing public during reorganization. As the situation of M&A changes in the capital market, we should try to strike a balance between risk prevention and efficiency enhancement, facilitating M&A with genuine industrial backgrounds. Functional improvements of the capital market hinge on legal support and protection. The current Securities Law and many other related regulations contain provision that are inconsistent with or even hinders M&A development. We must make complete overhauls as soon as possible. During National People's Congress held in March, I had this issue submitted specific proposals that can be summarized in the following points: 1. The Securities Law needs to further broaden the scope of M&A definition and include acquisition of assets and common capital-market types of M&A such as restructuring, repurchasing, mergers and spinoffs. Meanwhile, we should research on institutional arrangements of tender offers compatible with China’s national conditions, clarify the legality of the leveraged buyouts, encourage application of convertible bonds, preferred stocks, warrants and other financial instruments as financing, means, improve the institutional arrangements for stock-for-stock M&As and clarify the legal status of buyout funds.. 2. The Companies Law should reserve sufficient legal space for changes of registered capital due to M&A activities. In accordance with the Companies Law, no less 30%  registered capital should be in cash and cases involving M&As are no exception to the rule. This undoubtedly increases the cost and difficulty of M&As. 3. The Anti-monopoly Law should include administrative monopolies and regional monopolies impeding M&A into its scope of regulation. In practice, segregated regional and industrial administration not only poses a serious hurdle for cross-sector and inter-regional M&As but also, increases the difficulty of post-merger integration and synergies . 4. The Bankruptcy Law should strive to fill the blanks of M&As involving listed companies at the brink of bankruptcy. Among the over 30 judicially approved draft plans for bankruptcy reorganization of listed companies, almost all of them introduced an acquirer,, or new investor. However, there is legislative vacancy in new investor’s legal status and conditions of entry in the course of reorganization. And their rights in the follow-up reorganization lacks of legal protection.   This year, I was honored to join the Guangdong deputies during the NPC and CPPCC sessions. Many of Guangdong deputies and members are from economic community. During conversations, I felt the great M&A demands from Guangdong enterprises, which will, in turn, significantly contribute to the economic structural adjustment in the province. Former Secretary CPC Guangdong Committee Mr. Zhang Dejiang set high expectations for Guangdong to incubate large businesses and well-known brands during the discussion with Guangdong delegation. International experience indicates that large businesses and established brands are formed through continuous acquisitions. Though Guangdong has more than 360 listed companies, the potential of M&A has yet to be developed. We noticed that Zhejiang clarified its support to the large-scale backbone enterprises during a seminar titled “Capital Market Promoting the Economic Transformation and Upgrades of Zhejiang.” So did Guangdong during a symposium with large-scale backbone enterprises. The time has come for the capital market to accelerate M&A service in all fronts, incubating large business, improving brand equity, facilitating economic transformation and strengthening market’s ability to reward investors. Guangdong enjoys a good market environment and high-level economic development. It is well equipped to spearhead M&A. SZSE will make joint efforts with all participants in facilitating M&As through the capital market.      

CNI Large-middle Cap. Index and CNI Middle-small Cap. Index Launched
date:2013-3-21
Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. announced on March 20, 2013 to launch CNI Large-middle Cap. Index (Abbreviation: Large-middle Cap., Code: 399400), and CNI Middle-small Cap. Index (Abbreviation: Middle-small Cap., Code: 399401), both of which took December 31, 2002 as base day, and 1000 point as base point. The two indices are designed on the one hand to reflect the overall price movement of listed companies of different scales, and on the other hand to enrich and improve CNI scale index system.   It is as early as in 2005 that Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. took the lead in launching CNI Large Cap., Middle Cap. and Small Cap. Indices, three of which took CNI 1000 Index as parent index and grouped the listed companies in respect of their market value scales. Based on the existing scales indices, the newly-issued CNI Large-middle Cap. Index is the combination of CNI Large Cap. Index and CNI Middle Cap Index, whereas CNI Middle-small Cap. Index is the combination of CNI Middle Cap. and CNI Small Cap.. With distinct features, high coverage of market value and long history of data, CNI scale indices system is not only the best tool to research the rotation and cyclical turns of markets of different scales, but also offer good investment target for the exchange traded index products.   According to the statistics, the accumulated yield ratios of CNI Large-middle Cap. Index and CNI Middle-small Cap. Index are respectively 138% and 163% from the base day to February 28, 2013.   More detailed material on the index can be found on the website of CNI Index（www.cnindex.com.cn）.    

Building Consensus and Promoting Healthy Development of the Multi-tiered Capital Market
date:2013-3-20
Abstract of speech by Chen Dongzheng at Press Conference of CPPCC on 8th March 2013   Press Conference by CPPCC representatives from CSRC and affiliated organizations was held on 8th March, 2013. Chen Dongzheng, representative of the CPPCC and Chairman of Shenzhen Stock Exchange held an in-depth dialogue with the press. His talk touched upon channeling private funds into the capital market and formation of consensus for healthy market development. He also answered questions regarding the ChiNext Market, bond market, OTC market and  cooperation between the Mainland and Hong Kong.   Channeling Private Capital Supporting SMEs and Innovation   The very first proposal in the government work report is to accelerate the transformation of economic growth model and promote sustainable and healthy development. Expanding domestic demand is China's long-term economic development strategy, with domestic consumption as a foundation and investment as a key driver. In particular, the report proposed that the government plays a very important role in guiding private investment, which sees decreasing proportion in total social investment. Thus it’s necessary to further facilitate private investment and stimulate its vitality.   Last April, the State Council issued the annual 14th document titled Opinions on Further Support for Healthy Development of Small and Micro Enterprises. The document made it clear that 15 billion Yuan (USD 2.4 billion) special support funds from the central government budget would be allotted in the next five years. In line with the establishment of the multi-tiered capital market, China's venture capital has witnessed rapid development. So far, the total amount of funds managed by more than 4,000 venture capital institutions has reached 1.64 trillion RMB Yuan(USD 260 million), and they have completed 1503 investment projects in the single year of 2011 with funds totaling 79.5 billion Yuan (USD 12.8 billion). The number was far greater than the central government budget and the investment was concentrated on SMEs and high-tech enterprises.   SMEs represent future development of China's economy. Through the development of policies, we should actively guide private investment in the SME Board and the ChiNext Market. The multi-tiered capital market offers most effective channels for private investment. In spite of some necessary cost incurred, we have made remarkable achievements. In order to sustain the efforts, supporting policies should be formulated. As a practical measure to guide private investment, government policy should be geared to support venture capital. At the moment, the means and channels for private investment in China are still limited. The government should explore more reasonable and attractive investment channels for the huge social capital. Venture capital is an emerging business in China. Certain problems exist in the development process. It needs to be regulated and perfected. But it should be given a tolerant policy environment.   Seeking consensus and promoting innovation and development in the capital market with concerted efforts   The reform is a gradual process. It may proceed in a top-down or bottom-up approach. But the crux of the issue is to consensus building. The biggest problem facing the capital market is the pluralism of interests and consequential intertwined contradictions. The three-high (high price-earning ratio, high IPO price and high IPO proceeds) phenomenon of the ChiNext Market, especially overly-raised proceeds and executives’ share sell-off, is due to diverging interests and inconsistent market actions. However, all market participants share the "Chinese Dream", which is to build an innovation-driven country and a harmonious well-off society. The "Chinese Dream" provides a solid foundation to reach consensus despite the diversified demands of market participants and conflicting opinions at some stages of development.   The multi-tiered capital market system, comprising of section differentiation, product development, regulation and services, requires development through innovation. In all these endeavors, consensus building should be equally emphasized. Success of innovation does not come from satisfying demands for short-term and partial benefits, but from the ability to adapt to the complex and volatile macroeconomic environment. Thus we should carefully weigh the opportunities and risks and take into account the global and long-term factors. SZSE, as a front-line regulatory body, will fully appreciate changes in the market, build up experience in innovative efforts and reach consensus through explorative attempts. As a bottom line, SZSE will spare no effort in preventing systemic risks and the major or fatal risk events to secure innovative endeavors.   SME private placement bonds debuted last year. Though some progress was made, the overall performance fell short of expectations, reflecting immature market environment in China. With high risk and high return, the high-yield bond is usually a major part of investment portfolio for international institutional investors. However, in China, the institutional investors are still less mature than expected. From another perspective, it requires again consensus building to develop a mature market based on institutional investor community. As the market moves toward maturity, more professional institutions are needed to serve retail investors. Investment products become increasingly complex. In the Chinese market, with the stock index futures, and margin trading of securities, the shorting mechanism has appeared. The heated debate over T+0 implies that the mechanism favors institutional investors rather than retail investors. It is self-explanatory why institutions are the major participants in mature markets. It calls for general acceptance and agreement that an increasing number of mature and qualified institutions should replace retail investors as a major market community and bear risk for retail investors.   ChiNext Market is a good attempt to facilitate social transformation   It requires coordination among all relevant parties and participation by walks of society including media for development and improvement of the ChiNext Market. There are problems with the ChiNext market and they are the cost we must pay for growing up. But we should not underestimate important role the ChiNext Market plays in bolstering SMEs in China. Its significance is not confined to the capital markets. In fact it serves as a good attempt to facilitate social transformation. The ChiNext Market maximizes the entrepreneurial enthusiasm of various groups of the society, aggregates intellectual capital and financial resources in support of entrepreneurship and innovations. Social respect for entrepreneurship not only enhances social harmony and tolerance but also helps mobilize multitudes of social forces in the common cause of building an innovative country and a well-off society.   The ChiNext Market issuers are currently limited to six major sectors. With economic and technological development and deepening interconnection between sectors, we hope the restrictions can be lifted when conditions permit and social consensus is reached. The consensus usually results from fierce collisions. We hope that this process takes shorter durations and smaller cost than it would otherwise. In particular, the errors made before need not be repeated. Such a requirement poses a serious challenge for regulatory authorities, including SZSE.   Encouraging long-term holding of restricted shares through proper tax scheme   With the launch and smooth operation of SME Board and the ChiNext Market, the capital market has provided financial support for many SMEs, hit-tech and private companies and helped to bolster emerging industries of strategic importance. But in the process, the trading of restricted shares undermines the stability of corporate control and management, and consequently posing negative effects to the smooth operation and healthy development of capital markets. At the end of 2012, some restricted shareholders of the ChiNext Market volunteered to extend the lock-up periods. But in the long run, relevant policies and further guidance are needed to encourage long-term holding. In November 2012, the Ministry of Finance, State Administration of Taxation, and China Securities Regulatory Commission issued Notice on Implementation of Differentiated Personal Income Tax for Dividend of Listed Companies. Tax rate differentiation is conducive to attract private investment in entrepreneurial and innovative enterprises and has been widely adopted abroad. Taking into account the practical demand for the differentiated tax policy, we recommend further optimization of taxation policy to enhance its incentive functions.   Promoting Differentiated Development for Small and Medium-Sized Financial Institutions and Encourage Them to Support SMEs The vast majority of small and micro enterprises fall short of for the criteria for public listing or trading in OTC markets, limiting their access to capital market services. Large state-owned commercial banks have willingness and ability to provide support, but they also face practical constraints. Small and medium-sized banks have irreplaceable advantages in serving small and micro enterprises when it comes to information acquisition and risk recognition. However statistics indicate that only three of a total of 144 municipal commercial banks and one of 337 rural commercial banks have gone public and gained advantage through public financing. In comparison, in the U.S., NASDAQ has listed more than 600 different kinds of financial institutions, accounting for one fifth of its total number of listed companies and 337 of them are regional small and medium-sized bank. Japan has 105 regional banks, among which 75 are listed in Tokyo Stock Exchange.   First, by encouraging a number of mature municipal commercial banks and rural commercial banks to go public, we can promote virtuous interaction between the capital market and the small and medium-sized banks, increase financial support for SMEs and mitigate risks for balanced development of banks. However, First and foremost, listed small and medium-sized commercial banks must put primary focus on serving SMEs and avoid blind expansion. Secondly, we should emphasize regulatory compliance, strengthen requirements for information disclosure, risk management and ethical operation. We must achieve win-win situation among SMEs, small and medium-sized financial institutions and the multi-tiered capital market.   The OTC Market enhances standard operation of SMEs   The National Equities Exchange and Quotations, or the national OTC Market, was established this year, symbolizing a giant step forward in constructing and perfecting a multi-tiered capital market. Evidence shows that identity shift from a private business owner to a public company leader in a short period of time can be very hard for entrepreneurs. That hardship has formed the most prominent challenge for the SME board and ChiNext Market. Before quoting on OTC market, SMEs should first accomplish restructuring and fulfill obligations of information disclosure. The national OTC Market builds a platform of visibility for SMEs and guides them to regulated and standard operation. We hope the OTC market will see a speedy development. We suggest that municipal commercial banks and rural commercial banks quote on the OTC market and local equity transfer centers to get used to capital markets and prepare for public listing in future.   Reinforcing capital market cooperation between the Mainland and Hong Kong   To further strengthen cooperation between capital markets of the Mainland and Hong Kong, it is recommended that the following liberalization measures be taken: First, we should continue to increase QFII and RQFII quotas and maintain a stable and efficient pace in foreign exchange quota approval. The overall asset allocation restrictions for RQFII should be further loosened and finally lifted. Second, based on Qianhai’s privilege to pilot within the framework of CEPA, we should advance QFII2(Qualified Foreign Individual Investors Scheme) and RQFII2 (Reminbi-demoninated Qualified Foreign Individual Investor Scheme) and allow Hong Kong and Macao residents working and living in the Mainland to invest in the A-share market under the premise of the suitability management. Pilot programs should also be conducted in QDII (Qualified Domestic Institutional Investors Scheme) to facilitate regular and convenient capital transactions for mainland residents. Third, we should support the development of cross-border ETF and cross-border bond market. We will strive to explore mutual recognition of funds registered in the Mainland and Hong Kong, cross-border sales of fund products, cross listing of exchange-traded products between Mainland and Hong Kong and allowing H-share companies listed in Hong Kong to issue A-shares and bonds in the Mainland.

SZSE Kicked Off the “Open House Program for International Investors”
date:2013-3-20
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) launched the first “Open House Program for International Investors” on Friday March 15th, the World Consumer Rights Day. More than 20 international institutional investors and retail investors from Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan were invited to visit SZSE and listed companies. They represented institutions including QFIIs, QFII consulting firms, world-leading index developer and professional associations.   The program was designed to help international investors better understand trading, clearing mechanisms in Shenzhen market and fundamentals of listed companies.   Staff members from SZSE and China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation （Shenzhen）made introductory presentations on the latest progress of QFII scheme, services to international investors and the process for residents of Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan residing in the mainland to open A-share trading accounts.   Investors were invited to visit three listed companies based in Shenzhen, namely, the Overseas Chinese Town Group, Han's Laser and Nationz Technologies. In-depth face-to-face dialogues were held between visitors and management on the companies’ business operation, financial status and strategic plans.   According to SZSE, similar activities known as Meet Listed Companies and Get to Know Your Investors had been organized for mainland investors and received warm response. This program was specially designed for international investors in an effort to bring greater attention to and enhance services for this special group of investors.   SZSE has given it a top priority to enhance services for international investors. The program was part of an initiative to improve international investors’ knowledge of Chinese listed companies and seek progress in issuers’ international investor relations service.   In September 2012, under the leadership of CSRC, SZSE joined a delegation to Europe to promote QFII scheme in front of major long-term institutional investors. The delegation collected many constructive opinions and suggestions on QFII system and China’s capital market. In response, SZSE has made pertinent efforts in improving the service system for international investors. SZSE has updated the English website, strengthened real-time translation of major financial indicators and information disclosure in English. SZSE even developed a user-friendly search system for users to find issuer-related information in English on its website. A multi-disciplinary taskforce has been established to conduct research on reforming trading and settlement systems to better meet the needs of international investors.   At present, QFII has a shareholding on Shenzhen market worth 68.4 billion RMB yuan (US$11 billion), accounting for 1.33% of the free-float market capitalization.  

Abstract of Song Liping’s Remarks at Press Conference
date:2013-3-18
Press Conference by NPC members and CPPCC representatives from CSRC and affiliated organizations was held on 10th March, 2013. Song Liping, member of the 12th NPC, President and CEO of Shenzhen Stock Exchange spoke to the press about focal issues of the market. The following is an abstract of her remarks.   SZSE maintains its commitment to serving the real economy. SZSE made remarkable achievements in driving forward development of the multi-tiered capital market in the past five years. By the end of 2012, SZSE had 1540 listed companies with total market capitalization of 7.2 trillion RMB yuan. The number of listed fund products reached 228 and total asset under management was worth 174 billion RMB Yuan. We also successfully launched cross-market and cross-border ETFs in 2012. There were 372 bonds with a nominal value of 163.4 billion RMB Yuan listed on SZSE. The ChiNext market has witnessed sizable expansion. The 355 listed companies were concentrated in emerging industries of strategic importance including cultural, creative industry and the Internet. They have become a major force in promoting strategic economic restructuring and galvanizing private investment and entrepreneurship.   The most important lesson learned from the international financial crisis in 2008 is for financial services to return to basics and common sense. If we separate ourselves from the real economy and investors’ needs, we will waste opportunities of lesson-learning brought by the financial crisis. In line with the overall requirement raised in The Report on the Work of the Government, SZSE will carry out a number of projects to enhance market fundamentals. We will continue to organize the special investor relations project named Know Your Shareholders, reinforce the special project against over speculation on new shares in coordination with IPO reforms, develop a Home of SMEs as an SME-service platform, build a Supermarket of Funds, consolidate the Innovation Platform for Fixed Income Products and improve information access for Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors (QFIIs).   Along with the improvement of services, SZSE will continue to deepen institutional reforms, constantly improve systematic development and promote the healthy growth of the capital market in line with the overall arrangements of the central government and the CSRC.   In terms of mergers and acquisitions (M&A), we suggest that amendments be made to legal provisions concerning M&A and improve approval efficiency as soon as possible. SZSE-listed companies tend to be small in size. If we define restructuring only by ratios against total assets or income, it will not be fair to require restructuring projects of all sizes to go through the same review process of the Restructuring Committee. Amendments are necessary. At the same time, the reviewing procedures for M&A within the same industry should be simplified, while cross-industry M&A reviews should maintain its rigor and scrutiny.   As to the development of ChiNext Market, we suggest sector-coverage be expanded and relevant provisions be amended. Taking many practical factors into consideration, such as the impact of financial crisis, we believe that there is room for improvement in ChiNext Market IPO criteria and relevant provisions should be amended for this purpose.   In view of investor protection, we recommend cancellation of prerequisites of administrative procedures before civil proceedings, expansion of acceptance scope of the securities-related civil cases and drafting of judicial interpretation of market manipulation crimes.   The liberalization of interest and the aging society form rigid demand for the bond market and offer strategic opportunities for us to develop the bond market and adjust the long existing structural imbalance in China’s capital market. SZSE will treat the bond market as the “Hope Project” in China. We will learn from the successful experience of the inter-bank bond market, make full use of the unique advantages of the exchange market and set up a fixed-income product innovation platform. Also we recommend that the State Council issue regulation concerning corporate bonds management to fill up legislative blankness.   Faced with challenges from the internet-based information dissemination, SZSE has organized a special taskforce and developed a text-mining prototype to detect market manipulation by false statements. At the same time, we recommend that the Supreme People's Court and the Supreme People's Procuratorate issue judicial interpretations as soon as possible, clearly defining market manipulation and improving efficiency of punishment.   In the reform of the B shares, problems should be resolved under the framework of existing laws and regulations. According to plans submitted by the candidate companies, we will move ahead with each when it meets all necessary conditions.   For the restructuring of exchanges, SZSE will first of all improve its governance structure. We are preparing to set up board of supervisors. Such work will be steadily pushed forward. SZSE will also study the experience of overseas markets in restructuring and listing over the last decade. We will continue to strengthen services to SMEs and small-cap investors.  

SZSE Releases 2012 Retail Investor Survey Report
date:2013-3-18
Shenzhen Stock Exchange (“SZSE”) has recently completed the 2012 Retail Investor Survey Report, in a move to collect first-hand information on investment behaviors and make pointed references to the improvement of investor education and services.   It has been the fourth annual survey conducted by SZSE since 2009. Co-designed by SZSE Investor Education Center and SZSE Comprehensive Research Institute, the questionnaires covered the contents of investors’ investment knowledge and self-awareness, investors’ trading habits and decision-making patterns, conditions of securities companies’ risk education and suitability of services. They were not only follow-ups of surveys conducted in past years, but also reflections of emerging hot issues.   To ensure the scientific and preciseness, SZSE has always been entrusting The Nielsen Company (China), a renowned research agency, to conduct the surveys. Nielsen undertook the work of questionnaires distribution, collection and statistical analysis. The survey started in December 2012 and lasted till January 2013. The target respondents were retail investors aged 25~55 who had traded stock or investment products of any type in the past 12 months. In order to facilitate meaningful analyses, the survey was carried out in representative cities selected from the nation’s six major areas in accordance with the geographical distribution of securities accounts and the age structure of investors. The selected cities are Beijing (North China), Dalian (Northeast China), Shanghai and Hangzhou (East China), Wuhan (Central China), Chengdu (West China), and Guangzhou and Shenzhen (South China).   Online accesses was provided to responding investors and quotas were set according to the actual structure of investors in different cities. Altogether 3,076 valid samples were collected in the survey, with standard error less than 3% (confidence level 95%). Over 350samples in cities of cross-section investors was collected with standard error less than 6% (confidence level 95%). Over 100 samples for the ChiNext investors were, collected with standard error less than 10% (confidence level 95%). (Notes: investors were divided into three categories in this survey, namely, the “cross-market-section investors”, the “ChiNext investors”, and the “non-ChiNext investors”. The “ChiNext investors” referred to investors who had traded on the ChiNext market and other boards of SZSE in the past 12 months. The “non-ChiNext investors” referred to investors who had not traded on the ChiNext board in the past 12 months. Besides, “securities investors”, “retail investors” or “investors”, etc. should all be referred to as “cross-market-section investors”.)   Major findings of the survey are summarized as follows:   1. Educational level for the cross-market-section investors continued to rise, and investors’ self-awareness about their investment competence tended to be objective.   In 2012, educational level for the entire investors continued to see a rising trend year by year. 71% investors had a bachelor's degree or above compared to 63% in 2011. To measure the basic knowledge of investment grasped by investors, the investment knowledge test in the 2009 survey was re-taken in this survey. According to the final scores, the cross-market-section investors scored 59 points (out of 100 points) in investment knowledge, indicating some improvement over that (56 points) in 2009. On the other hand, investors’ self-awareness about their investment competence tended to be objective, and self-assessment scores were very close to scores in the test. Investors questioned were asked to value the investment competence of their own from 0 to 100 points. The outcome indicated that their average self-assessment score was 62 points, only 3 points higher than that in the test.   2. Direct equity investment cooled down and portfolio wealth management became more diversified.   Several findings showed that direct investment in equity stocks cooled down in 2012. On the one hand, asset volume in investors’ securities accounts continued to fall. The average account balance for investors questioned was CNY 381,000, a significant decline from that (CNY 413,000) in 2011. Among them, the average account balance for ChiNext investors decreased from CNY 778,000 in 2011 to CNY 673,000 in 2012, and the figure for non-ChiNext investors dropped from CNY 348,000 in 2011 to CNY 284,000 in 2012. Meanwhile, the role of stock investment continued to weaken in investor’s family asset allocation. In 2012, stock investment, accounting for 26.6% of families’ total investment value, continued to decline for two consecutive years (29% and 34.6% in 2011 and 2010 respectively). On the other hand, investors’ trading frequency was reduced compared to previous years. For instance, the average trading frequency for ChiNext investors jumped down to 5.4 trades per month in 2012 from 8.2 trades per month in 2011.   Investors’ asset portfolio tended to be more diversified in comparison. In 2012, investors questioned owned 4.21 investment products per capita, continuing to increase compared to the 3.84 in 2011 and 3.22 in 2010. Despite the slight decline in ownership of public fund units, other investment products had seen an increasing penetration, with financial products offered by banks and securities companies being the two major cash inflow channels, up 16% and 6% respectively over those in 2011.   3. Both investors’ expectation for return on equity investment and risk tolerance slightly declined.   As the survey shows, investors’ expectation for return on equity from investment and risk tolerance declined in 2012 in comparision with those in 2011. The investors’ expected annual average return for the ChiNext Board in 2012 was 26.2%, and average rate of tolerable losses was24.6%, 1.7% and 0.8% lower respectively than those in 2011. Investors’ expectation for investment return and risk tolerance for non ChiNext Board in 2012 records bigger decline from 2011 levels,or  3.7% and 3.9% lower than those in 2011 respectively.   4. Investors become further dependent on internet information channel when making investment decision. Recognition rate of SZSE’s Easy IR, an interactive online investor relations management platform, exceeded 40%.   Similar to the survey results of 2011, technical analysis on the price and turnover of equity was the major information source for the investors to make investment decision. Nevertheless, as the survey in 2012 shows, the percentage of information acquirement from such website media as stock chat-bar, forum and weibo by investors increase considerably, from 40% in 2011 to 48% in 2012, indicating gradually increasing influence of internet information channel on the investors.   When enquired about the acquaintance with the SZSE’s website Easy IR (an Internet-based interactive investor relations service), more than forty percent (43%) of respondents indicated that they were acquainted with the website. Among these respondents, 80% heeded specific listed company’s column on EasyIR because of their purchase or holding of the company’s stocks. This manifests that investors’ conversion rate from recognition of Easy IR to actually using it was relatively high.   5. The competition of securities brokerage was more intense, with their service quality continually enhanced.   Surveys of four years in a row show that the average commission of securities dealers in a continue declining trend. The average commission rate of securities dealers was 0.08% in 2012, 37.5% lower than the 0.11% in 2011, with the declining range apparently higher than those in the previous two years. This reveals the keener competition of securities brokerage business under the market environment last year.   Against such backdrop, the dealers’ services to customers were improving. More than seventy percent (73%) of respondents expressed that securities companies would actively contact them after they had opened an account in the security company. Three most frequently mentioned topics in the contacts were “recommendation of equity or investment products”, “information of the macro environment and the changes of policy” and “information of the trading risk”. As the statistics shows, dealers were more active when providing such services to the ChiNext investors, with average frequency of contacting the ChiNext investors (1.06 times per week) higher than that of contacting non-ChiNext investors ( 0.74 time per week).   6. Investors’ sense of shareholders’ rights and interests elevated comparing with that of previous year.   In order to understand the investors’ awareness and exercise of shareholders’ rights and interests, survey of 2012 follows the approaches of 2009 when investigating in this field. As the result suggests, compared with that of 2009, investors’ sense of shareholders’ rights and interests elevated, and with the major features as follow:   (1) The awareness of shareholders’ rights and interest enhanced. More than half (53%) of investors’ knowledge rights was exercised by “contacting the company and acquiring information via telephone, and website”. The percentage was 8% higher than that in  2009; similarly, there was 6%-9% range of increase in investors’ knowledge of such shareholders’ rights and interests as “online voting at general shareholders assembly”, “online performance presentation” and “suggestions or inquiry to the operation of the company” comparing with those in 2009.   (2) The exercise of shareholders rights by investors increase apparently. The exercise of shareholders’ rights witness a great leap in comparison with that in 2009 among the investors that are aware of the abovementioned shareholders’ rights and interests. The exercise of information acquirement by “contacting the company via telephone and internet” reaches 28%, 12 percent higher than that in 2009; the investors’ participation rates of the “online performance presentation” and “suggestions and inquiry to the operation of the company” are respectively 10 percent and 8 percent higher than those in 2009.   7. The relief of the investors’ rights shall be further improved.   Compared with the survey result of 2009, “reporting or lodging complaints to the relevant department” was still the most adopted approach of rights protection by investors when the investors’ lawful rights and interests were infringed by violation behaviors. 31% of respondents would choose this rights protection approach. This result was almost the same with that in 2009(32%). However, investors show lack of confidence for judicial relief, with percentage of choosing “calling the police or filing lawsuit to the court” by investors declining 4%. In comparison, the percentage of choosing “to act jointly with other investors whose rights being infringed by violation behaviors” reaches 22%, 7% higher than that in 2009. The percentage of investors “seeking social opinion support via exposure the violation behaviors in the website and media” grows 2 % compared with that in 2009.   8. Nearly sixty percent of investors were aware of the newly-issued regulations on delisting. 59% of respondents were aware of the regulations issued by SZSE at the end of 2012 regarding delisting : “Once a listed company enters Delisting Preparatory Period, it shall not stage or implement major assets restructuring and its listing status shall terminate within 30 days and shall be transferred in the OTC market.”    

SZSE Releases 2012 Stock Market Performance Report
date:2013-3-1
SZSE Financial Innovation Laboratory has recently released 2012 Stock Market Performance Report. The report offers a detailed and complete presentation on the operational efficiency and quality of Shenzhen securities market in terms of liquidity, volatility, effectiveness and quality of order execution. The report provides significant empirical ground for improving the market performance and maintaining sound development of the market.   As indicated in the report, SZSE recorded sound market performance in 2012, with favorable liquidity, continuous declines in volatility, stable operation, heightened effectiveness and order execution.   First of all, liquidity remained at favorable levels with impact cost (per unit of CNY100 thousand) at 19.5 basis points and liquidity index (per unit of 1%) at CNY1.77 million. The Main Board, SME Board and ChiNext Market also witnessed sound liquidity levels with their impact cost (per unit of CNY100 thousand) at 18.1, 19.1 and 22.2 basis points respectively.   Secondly, the market volatility continued to decline, and operational stability was further enhanced. Return to volatility and short-interval volatility ratios were recorded as 43 and 40 base points respectively, lower than those in 2011(45 and 41 basis points correspondingly). Return to volatility ratios of the Main Board, SME Board, ChiNext Market were 42, 43, 46 basis points respectively.   Thirdly, market effectiveness remained at a high level. The market efficiency coefficient (MEC) was 0.90, close to the random walk. The MEC of three boards are very close, with the price effectiveness of the Main Board (0.896), SME Board (0.904) and ChiNext Market (0.902) all recording relatively high levels.   Fourthly, the market recorded stable and efficient order execution. Calculated in shares, 35% of orders received best execution, 33% were executed within 10 seconds after submission and 93% were executed at a single quote. The average execution time for market-to-limit orders and other orders (the time span from the order submitted to execution completed) were 44 and 835 seconds.   Currently, China’s securities market is undergoing a phase of innovation and development. Dynamic product and business innovation bring new opportunities and vitality to the market. Regular market performance reports not only facilitate targeted product and systemic innovation of the securities market, but also support policy-making with empirical references. The report also offers a guideline for the exchange to further improve market performance.   SZSE recorded improvement in institutional development, trading mechanism reform, financial innovation and trading system upgrades. These efforts have laid a solid foundation for future financial innovation. The indicators also demonstrate that SZSE is headed towards higher liquidity, faster execution and lower trading cost. SZSE will energetically carry out works regarding deepening the liquidity, improving the trading system, enhancing the quality of information disclosure, constantly advance the market performance and provide a highly efficient and low-cost market for investors.    

SZSE Outlines Key Tasks for 2013
date:2013-2-8
The overall development in China’s capital market enters a crucial period in 2013. In accordance with policy lines as defined by 18th National Congress of CPC and other central government conventions, SZSE will strive to enhance the capital market’s transparency, penetration, coverage and inclusiveness. SZSE will accelerate development in the multi-tiered capital market system and facilitate transformation of economic growth model in an all-around way. SZSE will seek progress while maintaining stability, solidly prevent and dissolve market risk, maintain stable operation of the multi-tiered capital market, lower the cost of financing for the real economy and strongly support SMEs and technological start-up companies. Committed to reform and innovation, we will solidly implement the overall plan for capital market reform, reinforce existing achievements and consistently push forward reforms in greater depth and on a wider scale. SZSE will improve quality and effectiveness, safeguarding fundamental interests of investors. Putting investors at the top of priorities and leveraging on coordination of self, administrative and legislative regulation, we will enhance responsibility and accountability of market participants, improve quality of intrinsic development of capital market and its power to deliver long-term returns. SZSE outlines its key tasks for 2013 as follows: 1.   We will improve market system and accelerate development in the multi-tiered capital market. We will further enhance quality of the SME board and ChiNext, and ease the industry restrictions of ChiNext. SZSE also facilitates business expansion and competence-building by main-board-listed companies. SZSE will promote reforms of B share market and continue to spearhead the pilot project of transferring B shares to H shares. SZSE will actively support the new National SME Share Transfer System and regional OTC markets to expand coverage of the capital market. SZSE will also help accelerate development of the bond market in an effort to optimize capital market structure. 2. We will optimize market mechanism and reinforce reforms in major fields. SZSE will continue to deepen IPO reform, orderly and steadily implement the new delisting system, promote the winnowing mechanism, and improve the management and internal control of listed companies. SZSE will facilitate establishment of a flexible and efficient merger and acquisition evaluation system, encouraging M&As among listed companies in the same sector. Evaluation procedures will be simplified for M&A projects that do not cause material changes in its main business. 3. We will strengthen frontline supervision, improving market transparency, and promoting the quality of market subjects. Centering on information disclosure, SZSE will adopt harsher punishment for irregularities such as accounting frauds, improve the anti-insider-trading system and strengthen the supervision of proceeds. SZSE will also make an effort to offer clear and efficient business rules, reinforcing foundation of self-regulation. SZSE will boost regulatory innovation, strengthen awareness and responsibility of information disclosure. SZSE will further expand the scale and categories in the pilot project to allow listed companies direct information disclosure to the public. Besides, SZSE will implement continuous supervision, reinforce professional training to board secretaries and strengthen credibility building. 4.  We will enrich product variety and improving the quality of issuer incubation and promotion. Leveraging on current supportive platforms and empirical analysis, we will continue to promote business innovation in ETF, margin trade, equity stocks collateralization. Will also emphasize product innovation such as asset-backed securities and provide complete product lines for professional and institutional investors to participate in the capital market. SZSE will continue to strengthen services to key and weak areas of the real economy, intensify cooperation with local governments, mobilize intermediary agencies and optimize the joint-incubation mechanism. 5.   We will consolidate fundamental services, continuously deepening investor protection, reinforcing the investor-oriented and market-based service system. We will further enhance Investor Call Center, EasyIR(an Internet-based interactive investor relations service),and Omnimedia Platform for Investor Research and Information Disclosure. SZSE also works hard to narrow the gaps between different geographic regions and user groups and offers comprehensive and balanced education and service to various investor groups. We will continue to promote distance training and reduce cost for the market community. 6. We will strengthen clean administration, internal management and actively perform social responsibilities. In line with central government policies on disciplinary improvement, we will continue to improve work ethics, elevate anti-corruption actions, strictly practice diligence and thrift, constantly improving market credibility and promote staff cohesion and effectiveness. We will strengthen risk management and assure safe and stable market operation. We will continue to participate in poverty-relief activities, intensify effort in ecological improvement program known as Century Youth Reforestation in Alashan deserts of Inner Mongolia. Furthermore, SZSE will pursue and promote several innovation programs, consolidate foundation for market development, and further implement the arrangements by the National Securities and Futures Regulatory Working Conference: 1.       1.   Kicking off special project “Know Your Shareholders”. We will optimize functions of EasyIR, extending information coverage and emphasizing listed companies’ timely disclosure research reception by institutional investors. SZSE will promote pilot online video conferencing for shareholders and optimize online voting system. We will continue Listed Companies’ Open House Program for Investors, and introduce further online multi-media interactive services. Taking this opportunity, SZSE will intensify efforts in establishing a long-term investor relations management mechanism, upholding awareness of proactive services and shareholder returns. 2.       2.  Implementing campaign against new-share speculation In support of IPO reform and special inspection on IPO candidates’ finances, SZSE will analyze typical big-account speculator on new shares and the small-cap retail investors suffering continuous losses in new-share speculation, improve investor suitability management and guide members’ self-regulation though self checks and random inspections. By ex ante preventive measures, strict control during risk events and ex post punishment, we will intensify regulation and control over new-share speculation. We will also strengthen risk alert, improve information disclosure on trading profile of new shares, enhance transparency and reinforce market restraint. 3.       3. Setting up “Home of SMEs”. We will set up a comprehensive service platform for SMEs and growth enterprises by integrating resources. The platform will provide value-added services covering listing, training, information, exhibition and business promotion. The platform will be public service and open architecture in nature, facilitating communication between and among market participants through the Internet.  4.       4.  Establishing “Supermarket of Funds”. We will expand and strengthen ETFs, structured funds, and listed open-end funds. We will intensify efforts in developing products such as cross-market and cross-border ETFs, bond ETFs, gold ETFs, and currency ETFs. SZSE aims to develop an important platform for efficient, convenient and low-cost asset allocation on domestic and international markets and serving wealth management demands from various funds including pension, insurance, and public housing provision. 5.       5.  Establishing “Innovation Platform for Fixed Income Products”. Drawing on experience from the pilot program of SME private placement bonds, we will improve business rules, promoting innovation in bond products such as private placement bonds, exchangeable bonds, M&A bonds, and subordinated bonds issued by securities companies. SZSE will continue to evaluate asset-backed securities, promote market incubation and improve institutional development. We will leverage on asset-based securities products to facilitate financing for infrastructure and municipal projects and better serve the real economy.    6.  Improving service of “QFII Information Interface”. We will promote the new version of SZSE English-language website, enhancing international investors’ understanding of Shenzhen market. Main indicators of information disclosure will be timely translated into English. We will encourage listed companies to prepare English summary of information disclosure, meeting the information demands of international investors. We will work with main foreign index agencies to promote inclusion of Shenzhen stocks into their investment indices. SZSE will also actively develop international cooperation and increase the level of openness.    

SZSE Held “Hand-in-hand” Essay Contests
date:2013-2-8
Since 2011, two seasons of“Hand-in-hand” essay contests have been organized and successfully held by Shenzhen Stock Exchange(SZSE) with the support of China Securities Regulatory Commission and the active involvement of regional securities regulatory bureaus. The essay contests were oriented toward forefront supervisors in regional securities regulatory bureaus around the theme of “promoting regulatory development of SMEs, and improving the capital market’s ability in serving entity economy”. According to statistics, the two contests solicited 365 essays in total, which were contributed by 444 forefront supervisors serving at 36 regional securities regulatory bureaus. Each contest rewarded 14 first prize essays, 36 second prize essays and 6 honorable mention essays especially designed for western areas.   In recent years, complication and difficulty in the supervision over listed companies has been emerging with new situations and new issues constantly popped in. Companies listed on SZSE are featured with small scale, short listing history and high proportion of private enterprises and new business model. There are 701 companies listed on the SME board with average capital stock of CNY340 million, and 355 companies listed on the ChiNext board with average capital stock of CNY170 million. Private enterprises account for 80% of companies listed on the SME board and 94% of those listed on the ChiNext board. Setting up the concept of standard operation and sense of responsibility for public investors is the top priority for such private enterprises after they get access to the capital market. New challenges have been posed to securities regulators because of the aforesaid features of listed companies.   In general speaking, following characteristics are manifested in the essay contests:   First, the sum-up of supervisory experience is highly valued. China’s capital market started with the lagging economic growth, heavy burden of reform and transition, and imperfection of market economic system. Solutions to the problems encountered cannot directly copy from textbook or experience from overseas markets. Over the years, regional securities regulatory bureaus have summed up effective experience in aspect of enhancing listed companies’ independence, perfecting corporate governance structure, regulating information disclosure, preventing and controlling insider trading, and supervision over equity incentive and merger and reorganization. Such experience was reflected in the essays. The summarization and promotion of such experience helps to enhance regulators’ competencies and skills.   Second, new situations and new issues encountered in supervisory work are highly valued. Illegal behaviors become more complicated and hidden with increasing number of asset-light companies landed on the ChiNext board. For example, the behavior of transferring listed companies’ interests via non-fair connected transactions, windowing dressing of financial statements, profit control by using fair value measurement model, etc. Cases due to insufficient credit consciousness of controlling shareholders or de facto controller of listed companies, or non- performance or incomplete performance of commitments often happened. Insider trading especially those appeared in the process of acquisition and reorganization tended to be frequent, incidental, complicated and multiplex. The essays revealed forefront supervisors’ high sensitivity to new situations and new issues. Some essays proposed adequate answers and solutions to such problems.   Third, the exchange and use of supervisory experience is highly valued. After the essay contests, colloquia were organized and held by SZSE. Participants included leaders from CSRC and SZSE as well as contest participants. They summed up experience and probed into problems involved. Outstanding articles were moreover compiled and published for further study in the securities regulatory system.  Relevant principal from SZSE expressed that the desired purpose of the essay contests has been achieved with the support from all sides. In the future, they will broaden the scope of participants, contents and forms of the activities; make a better platform for research and idea exchange, and work together to build up a standard, health and vibrant multi-level capital market.

SZSE Issue 2012 Work Report on Self-discipline and Supervision
date:2013-2-7
2012 Work Report on Self-discipline and Supervision, issued by Shenzhen Stock Exchage (SZSE) lately, summarizes works on self-discipline and supervision from perspectives of system development, supervision on law enforcement, and daily supervision. As the report indicates, SZSE will take steps in five aspects to further enhance the quality of works on self-discipline and supervision, and give full play to the trinity coordinated influence of self-discipline, administration, and judicial supervision.   In 2012, adhere to the unified deploy of China Securities Regulatory Commission, SZSE carried out the capital market’s reform and innovation in the works of self-discipline and supervision. With respect of system development, SZSE， energetically coordinating the delisting system reform, revised rules on three core works. Meanwhile, upholding the principle of simplification and transparency, footing on the direction of market-oriented reform, SZSE completed the 9th round of business rules rationalization，abolishing 59 items of business rules, further optimizing the business rule system. With respect of supervision on law enforcement， SZSE have continued to improve the ‘separation of investigation and examination’ discipline mechanism system, and formulated Standards for Public Condemnation for Companies Listed on SME Board, and Rules on Discipline Punishment Hearing Procedures, both of which improve the transparency, fairness and credibility of discipline punishment; SZSE also intensify the punishment on violation behaviors, with 11 examination meeting being held by discipline punishment committee in this year, decisions on 51 cases of punishment involving 45 listed companies and 200 people responsible for the violation having been made. With respect of daily supervision, SZSE put forward vehemently the reform on issuance and delisting system, expanded the pilot scope of Information Disclosure Express, launched Guideline on Information Disclosure of Different Sectors, and probed for new supervision mechanism for classified sectors, strengthened the supervision on listed companies. Behaviors such as insider trading, market manipulation, and speculation have been firmly cracked down; supervision on securities trading have been strengthened; SZSE continue to carry out investors’ appropriateness management on ChiNext Board, improve risk warning system for newly-issued share trading, enhance members’ risk control capacity and members’ standardized operation, and strengthen the supervision on members.   The report pointed out that, as the advancing of reform and innovation of capital market, self-discipline and supervision work is facing a string of new challenges. Against such backdrop, SZSE will tackle the situation from five aspects: firstly, to develop integrated simplified and efficient business rule system, further laying solid system foundation for self-discipline and supervision; secondly, to unyieldingly push forward multi-layer capital market system innovation, and solve the practical problem via innovative minding and measures; thirdly, continue to intensify the daily supervision, further improve the transparency of market operation; fourthly, to innovate the self-discipline supervision and law enforcement mechanism,  earnestly carry out supervision in the light of law; fifthly, to give full plays to the closeness between frontline of self-discipline supervision and investors, enhancing the service and protection for investors.   In recent years, SZSE fully fulfill its own duties, and release a series of documents including Annual Report on Self-discipline and Supervision, and Empirical Analysis Report on the Annual Report of Listed Companied periodically. SZSE is probing to enhance the market operation and standardization, science and transparency of frontline supervision works, which, as SZSE hope, will be supported by the market bodies with more good suggestions.  

SZSE Complete the 9th Round of Business Rules Rationalization
date:2013-2-7
Recently, Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) have completed the 9th round of business rules rationalization, and released to the market Announcement on the Catalogue of the Abolished Business Rules (the 5th batch), which declares the abolishment of 59 kinds of business rules, including the types rules before revision, of self-invalid, under abolished upper laws and regulations and abolished due to the none applicability to the business development. After the clean-up, SZSE have 103 valid business rules, all of which will be publicized and updated in a real-time manner on the Laws and Regulation column of SZSE’s website.   Having always highly valued the system development of business rules, SZSE adherent to the principle of “simplification and transparency” carry out rationalization and appraisal of business rules on a regular basis, striving to develop concise and efficient business rule system while footing on the direction of the market-oriented reform. Up till now, SZSE has cleaned up and abolished 451 types of business rules. SZSE will carry out the dynamic business rules rationalization for the next step.   In order to facilitate the market bodies to understand accurately and enforce efficiently the business rules, SZSE energetically promote the “deduction”, advancing the business rules system development from quantity-oriented to quality-oriented. As the statistics shows, in spite of the gradual increase of market layers and securities types, SZSE’s business rules reduced from the 139 items as of the end of June, 2008 to 103 items after this clean-up.   While simplifying the rule system, SZSE attach importance to improving the transparency of rules formulation produces and self-discipline supervision standards. Via soliciting public opinion solicitation, and holding symposium, SZSE widely solicit market opinion, propelling the openness and transparency of rule formulation, and actively probe and explore the open standards for self-discipline and supervision, boosting the principle of  ‘supervise in the light of law, and sunshine supervision’. After releasing Standards for Public Condemnation for Companies Listed on ChiNext Board on April 1, 2011, SZSE released and enforced Standards for Public Condemnation for Companies Listed on SME Board, and Rules on Discipline Punishment Hearing Procedures, so as to enhance the fairness of supervision and protect the legal rights and interests of the parties.   Relevant principal from SZSE stressed that in face of new situation, in which multi-layer market, various types of securities co-exist, and market reform and innovation speed up , SZSE will continue to improve the long-term mechanism for formulation, revision, rationalization appraisal of business rules, and constantly intensify the foresight, harmony and transparency of business rules.  

SZSE Convened Membership Meeting Regarding Investors' Suitability Management on Newly-issued Shares Trading
date:2013-2-1
Recently, SZSE convened a meeting, via spot meeting and online meeting, regarding carrying out investors’ appropriateness management on newly-issued share trading. The meeting aims at calling on all members to implement the CSRC’s requirement of strengthening the management on the clients’ appropriateness on newly-issued share trading, enhancing pertinence and effectiveness of investors’ appropriateness management, further cracking down the speculation. Nearly 500 people, including relevant principals from SZSE, managers and chief compliance officers from securities companies of broker qualification, and principals of related departments, attended the meeting.   It is pointed out at the meeting that investor’s appropriateness management is not only a fundamental work for capital market, but also an important means for the securities companies to carry out services for clients and elevate the clients’ value. Pushing forward the investor’s appropriateness management is of great significance for improving the market mechanism, intensifying the market function, maintaining the market order and protecting the investors’ legal rights and interests, even though it is a long and arduous journey, which shall constantly incorporate with the market status quo in improvement.   Last April, China Securities Regulatory Commission released Guidelines on Further Deepening IPO Reform, deeming the investors’ appropriateness management on IPO shares as an important measure of further deepening IPO reform. As the supportive regulations, SZSE also released Circular on Enhancing Investors’ Appropriateness Management Regarding IPO Trading, Guidelines on Supervising Abnormal Trading Behaviors during the Initial Stage of IPO Trading last June. SZSE, hand-in-hand with its members, actively implement CSRC’s relevant requirement, and strengthen the risk warning and education on clients who buy the newly-issued shares so as to enhance the clients’ risk awareness, and standardize the clients trading behavior. After the joint efforts of the market bodies in the previous year, speculation on newly-issued shares is curbed down somewhat, and rationality returns to the pricing in the primary market.   It is discussed at the meeting that, in order to cement the staged achievements of IPO system reform, as well as to coordinate with the special investigation by CSRC on the financial statement of companies pending for IPO approval, SZSE and its members shall draw experience and lessons from the newly-issued share trading appropriateness management last year, and further deepen the IPO trading appropriateness management.   It is reported at the meeting the overall situation of abnormal trading in the early trading stage after IPO and individual accounts that participated in speculation on IPO share trading. Issues requiring special attention in the member’s works regarding investors’ appropriateness management on newly-issued share are sorted. SZSE will send the accounts of typical speculation on IPO trading respectively to the members, who are asked to conduct relevant risk warning and education to the clients. The members are required to build classification of IPO speculation accounts and long-term mechanism for risk warning. What is more, SZSE also urge the member to implement the system requirement via self review and random investigation.   It is underscored at the meeting that, strengthening the IPO share trading appropriateness management is the matching requirement of facilitating the balanced and coordinated development of primary and secondary markets, and also the member’s duty to protect the client’s interest. However, at present, small-medium investors are still keen on speculation on IPO share trading, with the account participated in newly-issued share trading largely suffering losses. During the first half year of previous year, nearly 60 percent of small-medium investors who participated in the first trading day of newly issued share suffered losses. The less experienced is the investors, the graver losses they suffered, the higher price the new shares went on the first trading day, the heavier losses the individual suffered. It is required at the meeting, members shall, footing on the long-term benefits of the industry, intensify their awareness on appropriateness management on newly-issued share trading, and resolve to carry out the work, building good market environment, and greeting bigger opportunity of the innovative industry.  As the meeting closed, SZSE issue Circular on further carrying out Works on Investors Appropriateness Management on IPO Share Trading, which specifically deploys the follow-up works.

SZSE Advance the Overall Information Disclosure Express Practice
date:2013-1-29
Recently, footing on Information Disclosure Express Pilot Practice, SZSE plans to push forward the overall Information Disclosure Express Practice.   Information Disclosure Express is an innovative method of information disclosure that enables the public companies to summit particular types of announcements to designated media via SZSE technology platform. With the assistant of this mode, public companies may disclosure information without the verification of SZSE in advance. Ever since the launch of pilot practice of SZSE Information Disclosure Express on October 2011, 266 public companies with A Grade appraisal result regarding information disclosure have participated in the Express.   The pilot practice of Express evidently enhanced the efficiency and quality of information disclosure of the piloting companies, most of which indicate that the pilot practice facilitate the public companies to establish the concept of market-oriented operation, strengthen their disclosure obligation and consciousness, and boost the efficiency of disclosure. As the Express reflect the integrity regulation system premium, a lot of companies which are not among piloting companies demand to participate in the Express. The investors also express that the Express not only enables them to acquire the information of public companies more quickly, but also enables them to make investment decision timelier   Currently, as carrying out the overall Information Disclosure Express practice, SZSE expand the scope of companies participating in the Express, and types of announcement. Except for few companies with C or D Grade appraisal results regarding information disclosure for non-standard operation, or poor quality information disclosure, companies with A Grade or B Grade appraisal results may participate in the Express. Companies to participate in Express will cover larger proportion of listed companied, reaching nearly 86% of listed companies. Meanwhile, the types of announcement disclosure via Information Disclosure Express will increase in a proper manner.    Relevant principle from SZSE expressed that Information Disclosure Express is a significant innovative system, and pushing forward it at present stage is an important measure of carrying out the spirit of the 18th National Congress of CPC. The overall advancement of Information Disclosure Express practice will not only nurture the main market body’s market-oriented operation consciousness and capabilities, but also supervise and urge them to fully fulfill their responsibility, forming the market self-binding and self-discipline mechanism. At the same time, the overall advancement of Express will also propel the transformation of supervision methods with information disclosure as the core, and is conductive to improve the pertinence and effectiveness of supervising words.   He also indicates that SZSE increase the public companies internal reexamining procedure in Express, and improve the mechanism of after-the-event verification. In order to protect the rights and interests of investors, SZSE will take appropriate supervising measures in the event of the material misstatement, and wrong choice of announcement types for disclosing important announcement. At present, SZSE has revised the rules for Express, and carried out the works regarding preparation of training for Express. The amendment will come into force as of February 1, 2013. SZSE will also make adjustment, according the information disclosure appraisal works, to the scopes of companies participated in the Express and the announcement types on regular and irregular basis.

SZSE Further Expand the Scope of Underlying Stocks for Margin Trading and Securities Lending
date:2013-1-29
Recently, SZSE officially release the Circular on Adjusting the Scope of Underlying Stocks for Margin Trading and Securities Lending, which provides that the underlying stocks expand from the 98 stocks conforming to the standards of SZSE 100 Index component stocks to 200 stocks. The expansion of underlying stocks will further broaden the coverage of underlying securities, improving the mechanism of shaping the stock price and boosting the balance of market supply and demand, and is thus not only conductive to meeting the diversified trading needs of investors, but also beneficial to the sound development of capital market.   It is reported that ever since 2010, margin trading and securities lending business has witnessed a steady development. As of December 31, 2012, the number of securities companies engaged in margin trading and securities lending has reached 74, the number of investor credit securities accounts reaching 500 thousand, the balance of margin trading and securities lending reaching CNY27.7 billion, the accumulated trading volume reaching CNY443.3 billion. Among these trading, margin trading accounts for 80%, injecting substantial incremental fund in the market. In order to accommodate to the new market environment, SZSE makes adjustment to the scope of underlying stocks according the regulation of relevant business. The expansion of scope of underlying stocks by SZSE is an innovation which references the standards for the selecting index component stocks, rather than relying on previous approach that link the underlying stocks with index component stocks. The list of underlying stocks is sequenced after calculated by weighted evaluation formula, with special consideration given to factors such as large market capitalization, activeness of trading, wider coverage of the boards and stable market performance. According to the statistics, the circulation market value and trading volume of adjusted underlying stocks in Shenzhen Market account for respectively 54.46% and 42.26% of those of Shenzhen Market, with the coverage of underlying stocks broaden distinctly. The multi-layer frame structure of underlying stocks is basically formed with the stocks on ChiNext Board first included among the underlying stocks for margin trading and securities lending, and the further increment of underlying stocks in SME board.   SZSE will continue to keep a close eye on the trading activities of market margin trading and securities lending, and strictly crake down the abnormal trading behaviors such as manipulating or pressing market price via margin trading and securities lending. SZSE required that the securities companies shall adjust the list of lendable securities on the basis of the customers’ needs and in the light of underlying securities scope released by SZSE. Securities companies are also required to inform the customers the change of underlying securities in a timely manner via varies of channels, including the companies’ website and trading system, so as to guarantee the orderly operation of the business.

SZSE Issue and Enforce Standards for Public Condemnation on Companies Listed on SME Board
date:2013-1-15
Recently, Shenzhen Stock Exchange officially release Standards for Public Condemnation on Companies Listed on SME Board (hereinafter is referred as SME Standards for Public Condemnation), which defines the standards for actions that elicit public condemnation on companies listed on SME Board. The Standards, which will come into effect immediately, further improve the mechanism of discipline punishment, self-discipline, supervision and law enforcement.   Relevant principal from SZSE indicates that, SME Standards for Public Condemnation, incorporated with the practices of supervision over and management of SME Board, is formulated on the basis of Standards for Public Condemnation on Companies Listed on ChiNext Board. SME Standards for Public Condemnation drew keen attention and energetic participation from listed companies, receiving almost a hundred of feedbacks from listed companies for opinions soliciting. After the closing of opinion soliciting, SZSE organized relevant departments to research and discuss about the opinions, and made further amendment and improvement on the basis of the rational opinions absorbed.   He stresses that SME Standards for Public Condemnation highlights the supervision over major violation actions, setting up different punishment standards for different types of violation actions, so as to guarantee the pertinence and operability of punishment standards. Firstly, explicit punishment standards are set up for capital embezzlement, illegal guarantee, and illegal use of raised fund. The power of supervision is guarantee; secondly, specific regulations are formulated on violated disclosure on major issues and violated periodical disclosure of the public companies to curb and regulate these actions; thirdly, given the scale of companies listed on SME Board, indicators triggering the violation actions are set on the basis of estimation of specific data.   In order to fully protect the legal rights and interests of the interested parties, SZSE also issue Rules on Hearing on SZSE Discipline Punishment to safeguard the fairness of discipline punishment. Meanwhile, SME Standards for Public Condemnation also specially specifies the reexamination mechanism, i.e. those listed companies, which are unconvinced of the public condemnation made by SZSE, may apply for reexamination to SZSE within 15 days since it received the punishment notice.   The principal also points out that, the release of SME Standards for Public Condemnation is an important measure of enhancing the transparency of supervision over listed companies. As a trial and exploration, SME Standards for Public Condemnation only apply to the public condemnation on public companies, excluding the circular condemnation on the companies listed on SME Board, and discipline punishment of other parties such as shareholders, de facto controller, directors, supervisors, senior managements.

Frontier of Reform and Innovation
date:2013-1-12
Speech at Tsinghua PBCSF Financial EMBA Financier Forum By Song Liping, President & CEO of Shenzhen Stock Exchange   Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen,   It is my great pleasure to attend this forum.   Like other countries aspiring to catch up, China’s financial system has provided low-cost funding and financial subsidies to government-led industrialization effort. By absorbing cheap deposits from its residents, the financial system has supported development in capital-intensive heavy industries in China. As a result, a complete industrial system has emerged, helping China’s manufacturing sector build competitive advantages in global supply chain.   With 30 years of high-speed growth, China’s per capita income has reached 5000 USD, a threshold for medium-income countries. Yet economic and social transformation has brought increasing pressure for the country. China has begun to transition toward an economy driven by domestic demands and innovation, thus posing new challenges to the country’s financial system. On one hand, some high-net-worth individuals are not satisfied with low-return financial investment products on offer in the past. Instead they are pursuing high-return products with increasing risk appetites. On the other hand, financial services are faced with pressure to expand downward coverage. Many sectors related to development of domestic consumption and innovative technologies are in urgent demand of capital. But in comparison with heavy industrial projects led by the government, the new projects tend to feature higher risk profile and incompatibility with traditional mode of financial services and risk management.   Capital markets allocate investment and risk on a market basis. Theoretically speaking, capital markets have greater advantages and prospects in providing financial products that price high uncertainty and offer high risk awards. China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) has been forging ahead with reforms in capital market since last year, which to our understanding are in effect reconstruction of the capital market in line with social and economic transformation. I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words on the current reforms and innovation in the capital market.   First, we must develop the underlying market. Chinese capital market saw its development led by the government in a top-down approach. Unlike mature markets that evolved from private placement to public issuance, from bonds to equity stocks and from narrow- to broad-based investing population, Chinese capital market frog-leapt these development phases and started as a public exchange market thanks to modern telecommunication technology. In the beginning, exchanges tended to admit large companies from mature industries to lessen risk exposure by the investing public. However, coverage of capital market was limited to asset-intensive manufacturing companies as emerging companies from sectors related to domestic demand and innovation had difficulty meeting listing criteria. On the other hand, market participants are lacking in the sense of accountability and responsibility and underdeveloped in professional abilities, weakening the market’s power of restraint.   In the process of market reconstruction, we cannot pay too much attention to cultivation of basic market function. And we cannot afford to pass over the necessary course of development again. Since last year the CSRC has accelerated pace in building private-placement market, such as National Equities Exchange and Quotation (NEEQ), regional equity exchange market and OTC market by securities firms. Private equity and Venture capital firms are playing a more active role in the market. Bond market experienced rapid development characterized by debut of privately-placed SME bonds. We must emphasize development in underlying markets and basic products. It is of far-reaching significance to take remedial actions based on current circumstances and restore the capital market’s basic function.   Bonds especially ordinary bonds are a fundamental underlying capital market product. One cannot understand calculus without good mastery of arithmetic. By the same token, the capital market witnesses a weakened basis for pricing financial products, poor conditions for derivatives development and exacerbated risk in absence of a large-scale bond market. A mature bond market plays an irreplaceable role in exercising hard restraint over issuers and cultivating investors’ risk awareness.   Private placement market is fundamental in the process of capital market development. Private placement market offers restricted assess to qualified investors with higher risk-discerning and risk-bearing capability. Thus regulators are not involved in value judgment and endorsement. Investors have to be responsible for their own decisions and judgment, helping foster a market-oriented risk mechanism. In private placement market, it is up to securities firms to select issuers and investors and choose appropriate timing for issuance. It is a good opportunity for securities firms to transform themselves from covered business licensees to market intermediaries in the truest sense.    Second, we must improve market mechanism. As capital markets allocate capital by price signals, an appropriate price formation mechanism is critically important. Unlike price of commodities, prices in capital market reflect future profits a holder of financial product can expect. Therefore the price of financial product depends on the underlying asset’s profitability and expected returns, which are, in turn, subject to influence by complex factors. Retail investors dominate Chinese capital market. There are over 100 million retail investors in China. They generate nearly 90% of trading value on SZSE. Retail-dominated markets are prone to herd mentality, which sometimes even determines pricing of securities during an extended period of time. Speculation of newly-issued shares, low-quality shares and small-cap shares are examples of such psychology-based trading. Irrational price formation mechanism not only reduces efficiency of capital allocation, but also distorts the level investment returns from the market. Since last year, CSRC has taken a host of measures to expedite IPO reform, emphasizing information disclosure as the core of supervision and curbing over-speculation. A stricter delisting mechanism was put into effect, correcting speculative expectation on low-quality companies and eliminating the basis of speculative psychology. Price formation mechanisms have been improved by supervisory measures for IPO and delisting.   It is worth mentioning that the recent financial statement inspection program for IPO candidates is in fact an extension of IPO reform focused on information disclosure. Its purpose is to induce pre-IPO companies to improve the quality of information disclosure, thus facilitating price formation based on true and accurate information. At this crucial phase of curbing over-speculation over stocks of low-quality companies, newly-listed companies and small-cap companies, it is very timely to take this action to further optimize the price-formation mechanism on the secondary market.   Third, we must develop market participants. Innovation in capital markets is designed to give full play to the market’s role on a larger scale and in greater depths. However, a pool of high-level professional institutions is indispensible for improving market efficiency. Due to historical reasons, securities firms’ business scope is limited to categorized business licensing, and 70% of their income comes from brokerage businesses. Without distinctive advantages in professional competence and client management, securities firms still have a long way to go before becoming intermediary agencies in trading, capital and risk management in the truest sense. Such underdevelopment hinders market innovation.   Securities firms have been playing an increasingly important role in market operations since reforms started last year. Professional opinions of securities firms are heeded and respected in a wide range of businesses including issuance, pricing, trading and listing of corporate stocks and products. Securities firms almost have the exclusive decision-making power over some privately-placed products, such as issuance of SME Private Placement Bonds and OTC listings. This also propels securities firms to attach greater importance to fostering clients and enhancing their role as intermediaries for both buyers and sellers. In this way, securities firms can serve both sides at the same time, and seek profit margins in meeting demands of investors and companies. From the perspective of cultivating core competitiveness, securities firms must seize this historic opportunity and discard the short-sighted and conservative mentality. They must increase their input in markets and products with long term prospects even though they may not generate immediate returns.   Fourth, we must change our ideology for supervision. Along with the trend of innovations and development in the capital market, regulators will meet greater challenge in discerning risks in issuers’ business operations and product investments. If administrative approvals continue to involve value judgment or endorsement, there will be two consequences. Either market risks will concentrate on the government, or enterprises and financial products will be stuck at the doorway of administrative approvals. To avoid such consequences, regulators must relax control while strengthening supervision. Regulators should also reduce value judgment and merit-based examination in administrative approval and return the decision-making power back to the market. Focus shall be shifted from Ex Ante examination to Ex Post supervision. Regulators should also heighten enforcement efforts to protect investors from commercial frauds and rights violations.   Of course, the phasing-out of administrative control must be in line with the maturing of market participants, mechanism and legal system. However, favorable conditions have been created for loosening control in the private placement market. In this sense, private placement market should make a head start. This will not only reduce administrative intervention in financial innovation, but also inform the high-net-worth investors engaged in the private placement market and products as follows: There is no administrative approval, nor government endorsement or guarantee from the very beginning. So investors shall depend on their brokers and their own judgment to make investment decisions and be responsible for associated risk. It helps emphasize market participants’ due responsibilities.   Fifth, we must improve our legal system. The capital market is based on our legal system. In fact, rule by law is optimal path toward sound reform and innovation in the capital market. To put it in this way, reform commands social consensus; and pursuing reforms in the path of Rule by Law is consensus of all consensuses.   In the past few years, the CSRC has made substantial efforts in improving the legal system, regulating administrative enforcement, promoting innovation in enforcement system, and enhancing administrative capability. But undeniably, for various reasons, a few weaknesses still remain in the capital market’s legal system. To name a few, the lagging development in civil compensation and litigation arrangements, the difficulties for mid and small-cap retail investors in safeguarding their rights infringed upon as a result of false statements by issuers; as well as the lack of relevant legal support for fast development in private placement market. The capital market system reforms and business transformation are closely interconnected. Practical development has reached a point where improvement in our legal system is urged for from bottom up. We must seize this opportune timing for business transformation and product innovation to accelerate legal system improvement, promote comprehensive planning, minimize cost for reform and avoid reinvention of the wheel. In this way we can effectively prevent and dissolve systemic risks and provide the most reliable and solid institutional support for the capital market.      

ChiNext 300 Series Indices Launched
date:2013-1-7
Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. jointly announced on January 7, 2013 to issue SZSE ChiNext 300 Index (Abbreviation: ChiNext 300, Code: 399012), which takes June 29, 2012 as base day, and 1000 point as base point, SZSE ChiNext 300 Growth Index (Abbreviation: ChiNext G, Code: 399667) and SZSE ChiNext 300 Value Index (Abbreviation: ChiNext V, Code: 399668).   Constituting an important part of multi-layer capital market development, accelerating the development of ChiNext Market is not only an essential requirement for forming pyramid market structure, but also of great significance to extend the capital market’s tentacle in breadth and depth to serve the real economy, and propel transforming economy’s development from factor-input type to innovation-driven type.   ChiNext becomes remarkably important in the multi-layer capital market over three years of development since its establishment, with the number of companies listed on ChiNext growing rapidly, the performance of companies listed on ChiNext improving steadily, and its valuation level tending rational. ChiNext Market index system gradually evolved into an important loop in the multi-layer capital market index system of the country. As another core scale index issued after ChiNext Index for ChiNext Market, SZSE ChiNext 300 Index will mirror the most updated development features of ChiNext Board Market in an all-around way, meeting the market’s needs for future development.   The development plan for ChiNext 300 and style indices follows the basic rules that dominated the development plan for SZSE 300, SME 300 and other style indices. Both the samples stocks for ChiNext 300 Growth Index and ChiNext 300 Value Index are consisted of 100 stocks, all of which are selected from the sample stocks for ChiNext 300.   ChiNext 300 Index covers 92% of ChiNext Market’s market capitalization, with its historical performance highly related to that of ChiNext Composite Index, and thus depicts the over-all feature of the ChiNext Market. As both ChiNext 300 Growth Index and ChiNext 300 Value Index adopt style indicators to select samples, the two further reflect the group features of ChiNext Market, providing effective indexation target for designing innovative style configuration tools. More material on the ChiNext 300 and ChiNext Style Indices can be found on the website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and the website of CNINFO Index（index.cninfo.com.cn）.

Stock Market Holiday Schedule (2013)
date:2012-12-26
1. New Year:  3-day holiday from January 1 (Tuesday) to January 3 (Thursday) for the stock market. The stock market will open as of January 4 (Friday). The stock market will close for January 5 (Saturday) and January 6 (Sunday).   2. Spring Festival: 7-day holiday from February 9 (Saturday) to February 15 (Friday) for the stock market. The stock market will open as of February 18 (Monday). The stock market will close for February 16 (Saturday) and February 17 (Sunday).   3. Qingming Festival:  3-day holiday from April 4 (Thursday) to April 6 (Saturday) for the stock market. The stock market will open as of April 8 (Monday). The stock market will close for April 7 (Sunday).   4. Labour Day: 3-day holiday from April 29 (Monday) to May 1 (Wednesday) for the stock market. The stock market will open as of May 2 (Thursday). The stock market will close for April 27 (Saturday) and April 28 (Sunday).   5. Dragon Boat Festival:  3-day holiday from June 10 (Monday) to June 12 (Wednesday) for the stock market. The stock market will open as of June 13 (Thursday). The stock market will close for June 8 (Saturday) and June 9 (Sunday).   6. Mid-Autumn Festival : 3-day holiday from September 19 (Thursday) to September 21 (Saturday) for the stock market. The stock market will open as of September 23 (Monday). The stock market will close for September 22 (Sunday).   7. National Day :  7-day holiday from October 1 (Tuesday) to October 7 (Monday) for the stock market. The stock market will open as of October 8 (Tuesday). The stock market will close for September 28 (Saturday) \ September 29 (Sunday) \ October 12 (Saturday) and October 13 (Sunday).    

SZSE Organized Sponsors' Continuous Supervision Training Courses
date:2012-12-25
Recently, Shenzhen Stock Exchange organized two sections of Sponsors’ Continuous Supervision Training Course, which were attended by 720 people, including 520 sponsor representatives, 190 continuous supervision commissioners and other related persons from 57 sponsor institutions.   With the features of being systematic and targeted, the courses are specially organized after the issue of Guidelines for Sponsoring Work and Evaluation Measures for Sponsoring Work by SZSE. The courses are all-around and systematic training on the subjects of specific requirement of continuous supervision, rules on the listing of stocks, and standardized operation of listed companies. It is conductive to strengthening sponsor representatives’ and related persons’ awareness of the importance of continuous supervision, helping them to accurately comprehend the related regulations on the standardized operation and information disclosure of the listed companies, facilitating the sponsors and sponsor representatives to further give full play to the continuous supervision.   It is reported that SZSE launched Circular on Issue of SZSE’s Guidelines for Sponsoring Work on Listed Companies and Circular on Issue of SZSE’s Evaluation Measures for Sponsoring Work on Listed Companies on November, 2012. They are the revision to and improvement of the previous Guidelines for SME Board Sponsoring Work and Evaluation Measures for SME Board Sponsoring Work, expanding their reach to the main board of SZSE and ChiNext.   The relevant principal from SZSE indicated that SZSE has always been dedicated itself in probing the paths and methods for the improvement of continuous supervision’s quality, the professionalism of continuous supervisors, and the development of rules and regulations that guide sponsors and other intermediate to fulfill their duty. At present, most of the sponsors and sponsor representatives supervise the listed company in the light of the related regulations, contributing significantly to enhancing the quality and standardized operation of listed companies. They have done substantial works in the regard, including, energetically helping and supervising the companies to improve their related regulations, and assisting them with information disclosure, carrying out on-spot investigation, guiding the standardized operation of the listed companies, strictly supervising the use of the companies’ raised fund, being attentive to the companies’ decision making process. However, meanwhile, a few sponsors and sponsor representatives, who only assume presentable looks, fail to give real play to supervision. As the advancing of capital market’s market-driven reformative measures in the country, the sponsors, important participants of the market, shall assume greater responsibility. SZSE will further propel the sponsors to improve the quality of supervision works, and better serve the sound development of multi-layer capital market.

SZSE Low Volatility, High Beta Series Indices Launched
date:2012-12-20
 Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. jointly announced on December 20, 2012 to issue SZSE low volatility, high beta series indices, which include SZSE 300 Low Volatility Index(Abbreviation: S300 LV, Code: 399661), SZSE 300 High Beta Index (Abbreviation: S300 HB, Code: 399662), SME 300 Low Volatility Index(Abbreviation: SME LV, Code: 399663), SME 300 High Beta Index(Abbreviation: SME HB, Code: 399664), SME-ChiNext 500 Low Volatility Index(Abbreviation: SME-ChiNext LV, Code: 399665), SME-ChiNext 500 High Beta Index(Abbreviation: SME-ChiNext HB, Code: 399666).   SZSE Low Volatility and High Beta series indices take SZSE Core Index as sample space, respectively selecting stocks of low volatility and high beta as sample stocks. As indicated by the research at home and aboard, low volatility indices can reduce the portfolio risk, prevent market bubble, and outperform their parent indices in the long term; whereas high beta indices provide perfect trading instrument targets related to high elasticity portfolio of ever-changing market. By separating stocks of different risk scale, SZSE Low Volatility, High Beta series indices, provide investment targets of different risk, thus facilitate the investors to better understand and control market risk.   As the data shows, the indices have very distinct style features, with the volatility rate of S300 LV, SME LV, SME-ChiNext LV respectively 2.21%, 4.83% and3.47% lower than those of their parent indices, while the beta of S300 HB, SME HB, SME-ChiNext HB respectively 12.84%, 16.16% and 13.85% higher than those of their parent indices. More material on the indices can be found on the website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and the website of CNINFO Index(index.cninfo.com.cn).

CNINFO-Guoyuan Wanjiang 30 Index Launched
date:2012-12-18
Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. and Guoyuan Securities Co., Ltd. jointly announce to launch CNINFO-Guoyuan Wanjiang 30 Index, which aims to mirror the over-all performance of the Anhui-based public companies, and reflect the economic features of Wanjiang Cities Strip Demonstration Zone for Industrial Transfer. CNINFO-Guoyuan Wanjiang 30 Index (Code: 399350, Abbreviation: Wanjiang 30) takes June 30, 2010 as base day, and 1000 points as base point.   Endowed with the advantages of unique location, rich nature resource and labor resource, Anhui Province is an important province for implementing the strategy of advancing the growth of Central China. As the first national demonstration zone for industrial transfer, Wanjiang Cities Strip is the perfect region for industry transfer from Yangtze River Delta, playing a significant role as a tie facilitating the coordinated development of the east, the central and the west.   The launch of Wanjiang 30 Index materializes the connection between the region development and capital market. The index, on the one hand, displays the dynamic economic features of Anhui Province, and gives better play to the demonstration effect of Wanjiang Cities Strip; on the other hand, raises the region’s economic influence in capital market via indexation innovation mode, providing good investment targets for the investors who have interest for the development of the region.   In order to reflect the advantageous industries of Anhui Province, highlight the potential sectors of the region, and enhance its risk resistance capacity and profitability level, Wanjiang 30 Index, by adopting three categories of indicators including fundamentals, scales and liquidity, select the Anhui-based public companies that rank the top in specific sectors in the country to form the sample stocks.   As the data shows, Wanjiang 30 Index has prominent performances in the history profit record: from its base day to November 30, 2012, yield of Wanjiang 30 Index is 90% higher than that of CSI 300 of the same period.   More detailed material on the index can be found on the website of CNINFO Index（index.cninfo.com.cn）.

Delisting to Become Regular Market Practice
date:2012-12-16
Shenzhen Stock Exchange has recently promulgated Measures for Relisting of Delisted Companies (hereinafter referred to as Relisting Measures) and Special Provision for Delisting Preparatory Period (hereinafter referred to as Special Provision).   I. Consultations and Amendments regarding Relisting Measures and Special Provision   As a basic institutional arrangement in the securities market, delisting system has been in practice for over 10 years, playing a positive role in improving market mechanisms. However, with development in the securities market, some drawbacks in the former delisting system were exposed. For                                                                            example, the former system, offering a unified delisting standard, was easy to evade and did not perform its intended functions. Furthermore, thanks to two decades of development, the multi-tiered capital market system in China has gradually taken shape, paving the way for reforms and improvements in the delisting system. Thus momentum has built up for developing a market-based regular routine delisting practice.   In order to deepen reforms in the capital market, effectively protect investors’ legitimate rights and promote the sustainable, healthy, and stable development of the capital market, SZSE officially released The Program for Improving the Delisting System of the Main Board and SME Board Companies and amended Listing Rules accordingly. Such actions were taken within the framework of current regulation and supervisory system of China’s securities market with a principle of making progress while ensuring stability based on broad-based consultation from the market.   To ensure the smooth implementation of the reform of the delisting system, SZSE released Draft Implementation Measures for Relisting of Delisted Companies and Draft of Special Provision for Delisting Preparatory Period for public consultation on November 30, 2012. During the consultation period, SZSE invited some of the members for discussion, listening to their opinions and suggestions. Meanwhile, SZSE also received 52 e-mail /fax letters, offering 55 feedback opinions.    Generally speaking, the market spoke highly of the two drafts, which were considered as conducive for implementing reforms in the delisting system and a positive attempt for aligning China’s securities market with mature markets. At the same time, they also raised some issues of concern and suggestions for improvement. Such issues are as follows:   l          Whether or not the Relisting Measures apply to the formerly delisted companies in the so-called Third Board market? l          Interval between the relisting application and entering OTC market is too short l          Whether shareholder meetings for some companies whose stocks have been suspended from trading can be postponed? l          Further clarification regarding the expressions with potential ambiguity.   The relevant departments of SZSE conducted in-depth research and discussion, further revised and improved the drafts on basis of opinions and suggestions from the market.   The revisions regarding the Relisting Measures mainly include: (1) to further clarify that the measures apply to all delisted companies, including “Third Board” companies; (2) in order to prevent malicious speculation, evaluation of relisting candidates now includes reviews of suspected insider trading, market manipulation during the Preparatory Period or after delisting and other such cases as established by CSRC or judiciary departments.   In the Special Provision for Delisting Preparatory Period, revisions were provided. As companies shall not plan for or implement material capital restructuring during the delisting preparatory period, companies in restructuring process have options as follows:   (A) Proceed into delisting preparatory period and terminate the on-going material capital restructuring activity; or (B) Continue the process of planning or implementing the restructuring and choose not to proceed into delisting preparatory period.   In order to avoid haste in limited time frames for companies to hold shareholder meetings when the companies in question trigger delisting process, the Relisting Measures supplements a new clause. When a listed company whose stocks are suspended from trading is the process of planning material capital restructuring, it is obliged to hold shareholder meeting to discuss whether the company will enter delisting preparatory period.   II. The introduction of relisting mechanism and delisting preparatory period system is significant in promoting the market-based, regular and routine practice of delisting.   The relisting system and delisting preparatory period system are important parts of the current reform in delisting system. The new Relisting Measures apply to the main board and the SME board of SZSE, and the delisting Preparatory period system applies to the main board, the SME board, and the ChiNext Market of SZSE.   The relisting system is an important means to establish a smooth channel of entering and existing the market and healthy virtuous cycle for listed companies. Delisted companies can choose to trade on the national OTC market or other qualified regional OTC markets, providing shareholders a continued channel of trading. Delisted companies can also apply for relisting if they have overcome the delisting conditions and satisfy SZSE listing standards through improved operation and recapitalization. The application for relisting would be reviewed by SZSE listing committee, and it is not necessary to go through the IPO process.   After the drafts were released, some market participants expressed concerns that listings through reverse takeovers would be given lower thresholds than IPOs. CSRC will regulate post-delisting capital restructuring matters including M&A and listings through reverse takeovers in accordance with regulation for non-listed public companies. Regulatory standards will be line with those for listed public companies and therefore unlikely to create the situation of dual standards   The delisting preparatory period is a common practice in mature markets. It provides investors with necessary trading opportunities on a different designated market and with full risk disclosure. The Special Provision adopts a series of risk-control measures including identification for companies in delisting preparatory period, disclosing trading information on a different designated market and informing investors about risk in investing in such companies through front-end control systems. The measures provide necessary trading opportunities for investors and help manage market risk by preventing malicious speculation.   Delisting system is a basic mechanism for securities markets. Based on the original delisting standards and procedures, the reform introduces delisting preparatory period mechanism and relisting system, which help to turn delisting into a market-based regular routine practice.   III. Clarify Cut-off Time and Facilitate Smooth Transition into New Delisting System   For companies whose stocks had been suspended from trading before January 1, 2012, SZSE would examine and approve relisting applications before December 31, 2012. Companies unable to meet the relisting requirements before the end of year shall be delisted. Investors are invited to pay full attention to the associated risks.   Delisting system reform is a significant reform measure in China’s capital market. The relevant regulations and requirements of the delisting system are serious and SZSE is determined to implement this reform. In a concerted effort with the market participants, SZSE will actively promote the delisting system reform and soundly managing risk involved in delisting procedures.  

Adjustment Made to the Sample Stocks for SZSE Component Index, SZSE 100 Index and CNINFO 100 Index
date:2012-12-10
Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. recently jointly announced to implement periodical adjustment to the sample stocks of SZSE Component Index, SZSE SME Index and ChiNext Indices, etc. Meanwhile, Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. also announced to adjust the sample stocks for trans-market CNINFO Indices, such as CNINFO 100 Index. The adjustment will come into effect as of the 1st trading day of January, 2013.   In the adjustment, SZSE Component Index will adjust 4 sample stocks, taking in Hikvision, Gold Mantis, China Merchants Property and Goertek and removing China Marine Containers, Goldwind, CSG and Angang Steel as sample stocks; SME Indices will adjust 8 sample stocks, taking in stocks including Western Securities, Beingmate, and removing stocks including New Sea Union, Qiming Information as sample stocks; ChiNext Indices will adjust 5 sample stocks, taking in stocks including Hybio Pharmaceutical, Ourpalm, and removing Flush, Avcon and other 3 stocks as sample stocks; SZSE 100 Index will adjust 8 sample stocks, taking in stocks including Kelun Pharmaceutica, Originwater, removing stocks including COFCO, Angang Steel as sample stock. CNINFO 100 Index will adjust 8 sample stocks, taking in stocks including GF Securities, Guangzhou Pharmaceutical, Shanxi Xinghuacun Fen Wine, removing stocks including Angang Steel, China Baoan, China COSCO as sample stocks.   It is reported that after the adjustment, SZSE 100 Index will include Originwater(300070)-the first sample stock listed in ChiNext Market. As Shenzhen securities market’s first index that of market measuring and investing functions, SZSE 100 has remarkable investment value, with its indexation products capital scale excelling 60 billion. The inclusion of the stock listed on ChiNext as sample in SZSE 100 indicates that after 3 years’ of development, ChiNext Board’s status has been gradually elevated in the multi-layer capital market. Covering the main board, SME board and ChiNext board, SZSE 100 Index has become a real core index with a prominent investing value for the multi-layer market.   As the data shows, the adjusted indices’ coverage of targeted market further improves. For an instance, the market capitalization of SZSE Component Index and SZSE 100 Index are 27.12% and 42.26% respectively, up 0.46% and 1.24% comparing with those before adjustment; as showed by the financial data of the 3rdquarter of 2012, the net profit of sample stocks of SZSE Component Index and SZSE 100 Index occupied 41.33%、53.23% of Shenzhen Market, higher than those before the adjustment.   Detail material on the adjustment to the samples for indices can be found on the website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and the website of CNINFO Index (index.cninfo.com.cn).

To Improve Investors Relation Management, to Enhance the Transparency of Fair Information Disclosure
date:2012-12-7
“Fairness, justness and openness” are the fundamental safeguards for the proper functioning and sound development of securities market, likewise, the openness and transparency of information is the essential feature and internal requirement of capital market. In order to standardize the public companies’ activities on investors relation management, substantially protect the medium-and-small investors’ rights to acquire information equitably, and further boost the transparency of public companies, Shenzhen Stock Exchange recently launched the Investors Relation Column on the website of “Easy for Interaction”(http://irm.cninfo.com.cn/szse/). Results of investors relation activities, including public companies’ reception of institutional investors’ investigation, media interview, road show, are revealed via the website “Easy for Interaction” to the market in a timely manner.   According the fundamental principle and explicit requirement of information disclosure by public companies, public companies shall fairly disclose information to all the investors. As the information regarding investors relation activities is disclosed on a voluntary basis, public companies used to disclose it incorporated in their periodical reports. This mode of information disclosure hardly meets the investors’ needs in terms of information promptness and sufficiency. To solve this conflict, SZSE have carried out substantial research and works on fundamental platform development, completed the supporting transform on “Easy for Interaction” and CNINFO website, and built for public companies voluntary information disclose platform, which enables them to disclose information regarding investigation, road show via “Easy for Interaction”. This is another major breakthrough and innovation by SZSE in respect of fair and voluntary information disclosure, after the revision and upgrade of “Easy for Interaction”.   As of December 3, 2012, after having been run for more than 4 month, Investors Relation Column has disclosed 3367 related reports, among which, 2969 are on investigation activities, 107 on media interview, 77 on road show, 214 on management system. The reports on investors relation increases month by month, for example, the number of reports disclosed on November is up 57.88% comparing with that on August. In the operation process, SZSE made improvement and optimization in accordance with the market’s opinion.   Investors may acquire detail information regarding the public companies’ investors relation activities from Investors Relation Column, which includes investors relation activities record sheet that contains investigation results, investigated targets, questions raised to listed company and answers thereof, and material provided by the listed companies or the presentation material for these activities, questions of investors’ interest that cover the public companies’ major business, core technology, profit model, competition situation, financial status, and development situation of the industry etc. However the investors relation information disclosed on the “Easy for Interaction” is not involved with major information yet to be disclosed, this kind of information disclosure behavior can not substitute the listed company’s legal disclosure obligation.   Relevant principal from SZSE indicates that SZSE will continue to probe for innovation, intensify the information disclosure, and further guide the work on enhancing fairness and transparency of the information disclose.

SZSE Launched Law Dissemination and Education Activity Commemorating December 4th, National Legal Publicity Day
date:2012-12-5
In order to commemorate the advent of the 12th “December 4th” National Legal Publicity Day, Shenzhen Stock Exchange, China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited Shenzhen Branch, Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. jointly launched an annually on-line law dissemination and education activity.   A relevant principal from SZSE expressed that SZSE has always prioritized the dissemination and education of legal system as an important aspect of work on strengthening SZSE regulation system development. With the theme being Prevention and Control of Insider Trading and Protection for Investors’ Rights and Interests, the law dissemination and education activity aims at disseminating such legal knowledge as Criminal Law, Securities Law, and judicial interpretation, enhancing investors’ capability of identifying the insider trading and rational participation in securities investment, and their awareness of law compliance, fostering zero tolerance social ambiance for insider trading, and eliminating the source breeding ground for insider trading.   As indicated by the principal, ever since this year, China Securities Regulatory Committee has reiterated that the unchecked insider trading would impair the foundation of sound development of capital market, therefore cracking down the insider trading shall be on the top of the agenda. Being at the front line of the market, SZSE has always attached great importance to the comprehensive work on prevention and control of insider trading. To accommodate to the feature of rapid evolution of the violation forms of insider trading, SZSE constantly improves the supervision system, enhances the capability of detecting the insider trading; to solve difficulty of keeping the confidentiality of the insider information, SZSE specifies the rules on filing the insider, propels the systemic and procedure development of public companies’ insider information management. In the case of Merge and Acquisition, and restructuring, of which insider trading is difficult to prevent and control, SZSE issues Circular of Enhancing the Supervision on Public Companies’ Abnormal Trading Related to Major Assets Restructuring, which sticks to the principle of  ‘stock abnormal trading verification shall be launched as soon as the restructuring is initiated; the restructuring of the listed company shall be immediately suspended as soon as restructuring is deemed by CSRC to be involved with insider trading. The process of restructuring shall be resumed as soon as the suspicion is clear, otherwise, the restructuring shall be terminated as soon as the suspected behavior is convicted violation’. With cracking down the insider trading being the permanent theme for market supervision, SZSE will continue to perform its duty of self-discipline and supervision, constantly improve the measures and methods of supervising, firmly crack down the violations and discredit behavior, which include insider trading, market manipulation, false statement that jeopardize the market order, impair the legal rights and interests of investors   It is reported that during the two-hour exchanging activity, law dissemination and education teams answered more than 300 investors’ questions, which covers the fields including identification of insider trading, and the prevention and control thereof, development of integrity file development, delisting system, information disclosure, standardized operation, and securities trading, etc.

Shenzhen Stock Exchange Promulgates Implementation Rules for Bond Trading
date:2012-12-5
Implementation Rules for Bond Trading on Shenzhen Stock Exchange (hereinafter is referred as Implementation Rules) have recently been promulgated, marking a historic milestone in the development of Shenzhen bond market. The Implementation Rules are an important measure aimed at enhancing efficiency and laying a solid foundation for the development in the bond market.   According to a spokesperson from Shenzhen Stock Exchange, Shenzhen bond market has been witnessing continuous growth thanks to increased diversity of bond products and market participants. By the end of September 2012, the number of listed bonds on Shenzhen Stock Exchange reached 350, with a total of 151.115 billion Yuan under custody. Among them, 56 corporate bonds were listed this year, raising 52.33 billion Yuan. The number of listed corporate bonds reached 111.   In order to improve the fundamental system and enhance market efficiency, Shenzhen Stock Exchange intensified effort in developing the bond trading system and a convenient efficient trading platform for diversified bond products. For example, adjustment to bond settlement cycle went online in September this year, recording marked improvement efficiency of corporate bonds settlement.   Implementation Rules on Bond Trading signifies the official kickoff of a number of key projects in improving Bond Trading System. First, the efficiency of bond pledged repo is being enhanced. Bonds can be collateralized for repos trade on the same day when the bonds are purchased. .Bonds can be declared as collaterals can be released from collateral on the same day. Bonds released from collateral can be re-collateralized on the same day. Second, bond repos trades are standardized and collaterals are diversified. Convertible bonds have become available as collaterals for bond repos trade. Third, the bond repurchase business process is being improved with bond collaterals and repos accounted for in the corresponding securities accounts. It is worth mentioning that the Implementation Rules cover declaration, transactions and information disclosure for cash bonds, repos and block trades of listed bonds, enabling investors to systematically and comprehensively understand the trading rules on the listed bonds on Shenzhen market.   The promulgation and implementation of Implementation Rules facilitates and promotes investors’ participation in the bond trading in the exchange, further galvanizing Shenzhen bond market. Implementation Rules also pave the way for future innovation in bond products in Shenzhen. According to a spokesperson from Shenzhen Stock Exchange, the exchange will further push forward innovation in bond products, speed up the research, promotion and release of index-based bond products in Shenzhen and enrich the diversity and means of bond trading. Shenzhen Stock Exchange will organize the training and publicity seminars to explain the rules and processes in detail and facilitate understanding by practitioners of securities companies. Member securities firms and investors are expected to heed these activities.

New Listing Rules Emphasize Delisting Arrangement
date:2012-11-30
SZSE has recently promulgated Shenzhen Stock Exchange Trading Rules (2012 version) hereinafter referred to as Trading Rules, which came into effect on December 17, 2012.   Trading Rules has been in effect for over two years since January 17, 2011. During the last two years, a series of basic institutional reforms were carried out. In particular, the successive reforms in the delisting system have called for further improvements of relevant institutional arrangements complementing the Trading Rules, such as the pricing stability mechanism and information disclosure system. To ensure timely and effective implementation of such institutional arrangements, SZSE has initiated amendment to Trading Rules.   In general, five clauses were added to the original Trading Rules while one was deleted and three were revised. Trading Rules clarifies trading arrangements regarding the delisting preparatory period. Furthermore for the sake of completeness and harmonization with previous documents, the Trading Rules also incorporates notices published earlier. The amendments are mainly as follows:   I. A chapter on “Trading Activities in Delisting Preparatory Period” was added. The new Trading Rules supplemented a fifth section titled Trading in Delisting Preparatory Period under the fourth chapter “Other Trading Issues”. Details regarding stock trading on a different board when it proceeds into the delisting preparatory period were specified, stipulating price volatility limits of upper and lower 10%, separate daily disclosure, exclusion from calculation of abnormal fluctuations and SZSE indices.   II. The temporary trading halt for announcements of abnormal stock price fluctuation has been canceled. In order to improve market efficiency, the new Listing Rules and new ChiNext Market Listing Rules canceled the stipulation of routine temporary trading halt for announcements on abnormal stock price fluctuations. However it preserves the issuer’s information disclosure obligation to make public announcements on abnormal fluctuations. The amendments to the Trading Rules deleted or revised the related clauses. Relevant rules will be officially implemented.   III. Some current provisions such as first-day trading pricing stability mechanism are introduced into the Trading Rules. According to Notice on Further Optimizing the Temporary Trading Halt Mechanism for Newly-listed Shares during First-day Trading released on May 23, 2012 and Notice on Adjusting the Maximum Lot in Single Transaction Declaration for Bond Trade and Bond Repos Auction released on June 27, 2011, the Trading Rules revised relevant clauses.   A SZSE representative stressed that the delisting system reform would promote the formation of competitive mechanism in the capital market, improve the market mechanism and influence the investors’ trading behaviors. To further improve the delisting system and implement the reform programs, with in-depth research, SZSE released the newly amended Trading Rules and simultaneously prepared measures and special provisions regarding relisting of delisted companies and delisting preparatory period for public consultation. (For more details, please refer to Draft Implementation Measures for Relisting of Delisted Companies and Draft of Special Provision for Delisting Preparatory Period.) Listed companies and investors are more than welcome to offer opinions and suggestions regarding further implementation and improvement of delisting system. Securities companies are expected to strengthen the publicity of rules and risk disclosures about delisting, earnestly alert the investors involved in delisting preparatory period about the associated risks, effectively protect investors’ legitimate rights and collectively promote the reform and development of the market. SZSE has established a regular and routine mechanism to improve the trading system, and it would pay close attention to market changes, continuously strengthen the basic trading system, and lay a solid foundation for smooth operation, reform and development of the capital market.    

SZSE Publicly Condemn Wanfu Biotechnology for its False Statement
date:2012-11-23
Shenzhen Stock Exchange recently publicly condemned Wanfu Biotechnology (Hunan) Agricultural Development Co., Ltd. and its directors, supervisors and senior managements for the false record and material misstatement in the company’s 2012 semi-annual report. The sponsor representatives of the company during the continuing supervision and guiding period have also been reprehended in a Circular of Criticism. This is the second case of public condemnation appeared in Chinext Market.   On October 26, 2012, Wanfu Biotechnology issued major correction and supplementary announcement concerning its 2012 semi-annual report, acknowledging that it had disclosed a false increase of 188 million Yuan in revenues, a false increase of 146 million Yuan in operating cost, a false increase of 40.2316 million Yuan in net profit, presenting a false gains or loss in its semi-annual report 2012. Meanwhile, the company’s shut down of recycling economy grain deep processing production line in the first half year of 2012 for the reason of technology transformation resulted in a major influence on the company’s business. However, the company failed to fulfill the obligation of disclosing the major event in time, and failed to disclose the information in its 2012 semi-annual report as well. After the revelation of the above violation actions, Shenzhen Stock Exchange launched disciplinary procedures on Wanfu Biotechnology in no time in the light of Rules on Listing on Chinext, and Standard on Public Condemnation, and issued pre-penalty notice to Wanfu Biotechnology and persons concerned, which underwent affirmative defense within the appointed time. The above punishment on the company is made by Disciplinary committee of the Exchange in accordance with the relevant regulations. According to the relevant principal of Shenzhen Stock Exchange, the Exchange have always been dedicated in maintaining an open, equitable and fair market order, determined in cracking down and curbing the violations of laws and regulations, constantly enhancing the transparency of the market, and facilitating the sound development of Chinext. The public condemnation on Wanfu Biotechnology and persons concerned reflects that Shenzhen Stock Exchange supervise the market in the light of the law and regulation, and fiercely crack down the malignant behaviors such as false record, material misstatement. Meanwhile the punishment also serves as an alert to the public companies including Wanfu Biotechnology that listed on Chinext Board so as to strictly standardize the their own behaviors and facilitate the standardized and sound development of Chinext Market.   It is reported that Wanfu Biotechnology is still under investigation. Further supervising measures are not excluded to be taken on the company and persons concerned in the light of the investigation result by the supervising department.  

SZSE Component EW Index, SME-CHINEXT 100 EW Index and CNINFO-CEI GDP Index Are Launched Today
date:2012-11-23
Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. jointly announced on November 23, 2012 to issue SZSE Component EW Index(Abbreviation: SZSE Component EW, Code: 399659), SME-CHINEXT 100 EW Index (Abbreviation: SME-CHINEXT EW, Code: 399660), CNINFO-CEI GDP Index (Abbreviation: CNINFO-CEI GDP, Code: 399399).   Respectively taking SZSE Component Index and SME-CHINEXT 100 Index that have been launched as their parent indices, SZSE Component EW Index and SME-CHINEXT 100 EW Index are equal weighted calculated. Together with such equally weighted indices as SZSE 100 EW, SZSE 300 EW, SME EW and CHINEXT EW, the newly issued indices provide more diverse indexation investment targets for the market.   CNINFO-CEI GDP Index is jointly developed by Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd., China Economic Information Network, Shanghai Vector Gestalt Data Service Co., Ltd.. The newly issued indices enables the “top-down” investment decision to materialize indexation, providing the market with indexation investment targets of sector allocation function.   As data shows, the cumulative gains of SZSE Component EW and SME-CHINEXT EW are respectively 212% and 20% from their base dates to October 31, 2012, exceeding those of their parent indices. The cumulative gain of CNINFO-CEI GDP Index is 251%, whereas that of CNINFO A-share Index of the same period is 230%.   More material on the indices can be found on the website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and the website of CNINFO Index（index.cninfo.com.cn）.  

The First Series of Performance Indices Make their Debut, Guiding Long-term Value Investment
date:2012-11-19
Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. jointly announced on November 19, 2012 to issue a series of performance indices, which encompass SZSE Performance Index(Abbreviation: SZSE Performance, Code: 399655), SZSE 100 Performance Weighted Index(Abbreviation: 100 Performance WT, Code: 399656), SZSE 300 Performance Weighted Index(Abbreviation: 300 Performance WT, Code: 399657), SME Performance Weighted Index(Abbreviation: SME Performance WT, Code: 399658), and CNINFO Performance Index(Abbreviation: Performance Index, Code: 399398).   Being the first of their kind in the country, the newly launched series of performance indices fill in the blank record of performance indices in domestic capital market. By introducing relative indicators in measuring the enterprises’ performance, this series of indices are a breakthrough comparing with the previous financial weighted indices, most of which apply absolute indicators. Consequently, they are conductive to guiding the public companies in improving their long-term operational performance, contributive to the development of value investment philosophy in the market, and facilitate the sound development of capital market.   The performance series indices assess the operational performance of public companies in terms of such three relative indicators as ROE, the cash return on total assets ratio and cash dividend rate of net asset. In this respect, the top 100 public companies are selected from Shenzhen Market and A-share markets to constitute the samples for SZSE performance Index, and CNINFO Performance Index respectively. In this way, enterprises of different scales become comparable in terms of profitability, earning quality and investment return. The performance series indices adopt new performance stratification weighted method and endow relatively higher weights to the stocks with higher assessment in performance. 100 Performance WT, 300 Performance WT and SME Performance WT adopt the sample stocks of SZSE 100, SZSE 300 and SME Index respectively as samples, which are calculated with performance stratification weighted method.   As the data shows, the cumulative gains of SZSE Performance Index and CNINFO Performance Index are respectively 269% and 287% since their base date, while those of SZSE A share Index and CNINFO A share Index are respectively 118% and 131%. 100 Performance WT, 300 Performance WT and SME Performance WT have respectively 69%, 73% and 62% exceeding cumulative gains comparing with those of SZSE 100, SZSE 300, and SME Index.   More material on the indices can be found on the website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and the website of CNINFO Index（index.cninfo.com.cn）.   

Speech at Caixin Summit
date:2012-11-17
By Song Liping, President and CEO of Shenzhen Stock Exchange November 17, 2012   Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen,   Good Afternoon.   The 18th National Congress of the CPC reaffirmed two centenary goals. One is to complete building a moderately prosperous society in all respects at the centenary of Communist Party of China. The other is to develop China into a strong, prosperous, modern, harmonious and democratic socialist country at her centenary. These goals are not only solemn oath to the Chinese people, but also a proclamation of commitment to the world. The capital market has an irreplaceable strategic role to play in facilitating economic transition, upholding social fairness and justice, pushing through cultural and ecological progress. Economic development over the past twenty years has well equipped the Chinese capital market for the task. The report to the Party congress urged for acceleration in developing the multi-tiered capital market. It is a call for immediate action and a clear direction for future development in the capital market.       SZSE has been striving to develop a multi-tiered capital market since 2000. The SME board and the ChiNext Market were launched successively, admitting over 1,000 high-tech and growth SMEs into the public market. It is a demonstration of the capital market’s increased capability to serve the national economy. As we have learned from practical experience, healthy development in the multi-tiered capital market requires consensus from all social sectors and support through reforms in key areas. As the report points out, “we must, with greater political courage and vision, lose no time in deepening reform in key sectors and resolutely discard all notions and systems that hinder efforts to pursue development in a scientific way. We should set up a well-developed, scientific, normative and effective framework of systems and ensure that operating institutions in all sectors are fully functioning.” This statement provides both political and institutional assurance for deepening capital market reforms, boosting momentum for the market’s long-lasting, stable development and strengthening confidence in accelerating development in the multi-tiered capital market.   In this regard, the theme of “multi-tiered capital market” is both timely and relevant. I would like to make a few points about accelerating development in the multi-level capital market on the basis of SZSE’s frontline experience.   First, acceleration in developing the multi-tiered capital market does not mean simple expansion in quantity. We must enrich the market structure in line with demands from the real economy. Economic and social transition brings about fresh and diverse investment opportunities and financing demands. The new situation requires that we change the one-size-fits-all market and product structure. We must place equitable emphasis on public offerings and private placement. We must accommodate demands in both in-exchange and OTC trading. We must coordinate development of equity stocks, bonds and futures. On the basis of enriched underlying products and in response to diversified investment preferences, we must develop a wide spectrum of differentiated and customized products. Acceleration in developing the multi-tiered capital market is an important move to adapt to both the nation’s economic growth model and the capital market’s development pattern in transition. The move provides assurance to the coordinated sustainable development in the capital market and is viewed as a sign of gradual maturity.   Second, the basic function of market in resources allocation should play a bigger role. We must not let ourselves take comfort in the monologue of regulatory bodies. In future, the market will face different enterprises with diverse natures and provide a wide range of financial products with varying degrees of complexity. In this regard, regulators’ challenge will be exacerbated in discerning risks in issuers’ business operation and investment products. If administrative approvals continue to involve value judgment or endorsement, there will be two consequences. Either market risks will concentrate on and overburden the government, or enterprises and financial products will be stuck at the doorway of administrative examination. To avoid such consequences, regulators must relax control, strengthen supervision and shift focus from Ex Ante examination to Ex Post supervision. Regulators should also reduce value judgment and merit-based examination in the form of administrative approval and return the decision-making power back to the market. On the other hand, we must emphasize market participants’ due responsibility, strengthening the market’s restraining power in market access, pricing, exit and returns.   Third, besides sound market structure and mechanisms, there must be a mature community of market participants. A market mechanism without mature market participants will，by no means，make a mature market. The development of the multi-tiered capital market will give rise to new trading platforms, products and more diversified risk types. In response, market participants must substantially increase their capability in pricing, intermediary service and risk management. However, as a major market intermediary, securities firms rely too much on the categorized business licensing at present. Without distinctive advantages in professional judgment and client management, they still have a long way to go before becoming intermediary agencies in trading, capital and risk management in the truest sense. In terms of investor community, we need more professional institutional investors as a significant trading force, playing a leading role in market pricing. But retail investors will always be part and parcel of the market. We will continue improve service, expand product lines and develop the market according to their investment preferences and risk-bearing capacity. We will also give emphasis to some retail investors’ need to participate in communal investment schemes.   All this demands us to work together in a consistent, painstaking and meticulous way.   Thank you.  

Culture Sector Indices Launched Today
date:2012-11-9
Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. jointly announced on November 9, 2012 to issue SZSE Culture Index (Abbreviation: SZSE Culture, Code: 399654) and CNINFO OCT Culture Index (Abbreviation: OCT Culture, Code: 399397). Both indices take June 30, 2009 as the base date, and 1000 points as base point.   In recent years, the culture sector enjoy a rapid growth, ushering into a significant strategic phase brimming with opportunities, with an increasing number of companies in culture sector going public. Being the first of its kind in the country, the newly launched culture indices fill in the blank record of culture sector indices in domestic capital market. SZSE Culture Index and OCT Culture Index respectively reflect the overall price movement of public companies in culture sectors at Shenzhen Market alone and both Shenzhen and Shanghai Markets, and are thus capable of providing indexation investment targets in culture sector for the market.   Innovation has been made in the choice of samples for SZSE Culture Index and OCT Culture Index. On the basis of culture sector category set out by National Bureau of Statistics, such enterprises as engaging in manufacture and sale of culture equipment have been filtered out, whereas such emerging culture enterprises as involving in creative design, new media have been added to the sample. Being in line with people’s common understanding of culture, the innovative choice of sample is marked with market-orient feature.   As the data shows, culture sector indices outperform the major indices of the two markets from July1, 2009 to October 31, 2012, during which the cumulative gain of SZSE Culture Index is 39.38%, and OCT Culture Index 20.14%, whereas that of SZSE Component Index is -26.77%, and CNINFO A Share Index -17.96%.   As reported by Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd., CNINFO OCT Culture Index is sponsored by and titled after Shenzhen Overseas Chinese Town Co., Ltd.. More detailed introduction to the SZSE Culture Index and OCT Culture Index can be found on the website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and the website of CNINFO Index（index.cninfo.com.cn）.  

Three Subdivision Industry Indices Launched Today
date:2012-10-29
In order to provide investment reference for subdivision industries like health care, non-ferrous, and food and beverage, Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. announced that the SINO Health Care Index (Code: 399394, Abbreviation: SINO Health Care), SINO Non-ferrous Index (Code: 399395, Abbreviation: SINO Non-ferrous) and SINO Food & Beverage Index (Code: 399396, Abbreviation: SINO Food) were launched on October 29 2012. All the indices take December 31 2004 as the base date and 1000 points as the base value.   Based on the CNINFO Industry Classification for Listed Companies, the aforesaid indices take market capitalization, liquidity and industry representativeness into full consideration, and select sample stocks from A-share companies in corresponding subdivision industries. In this regard, SINO Health Care selected 80 samples from the medicine and health care industry, and SINO Non-ferrous and SINO Food respectively selected 50 samples from the non-ferrous metal industry and food and beverage industry.   The three indices and the already launched SINO Real Estate Index (Code: 399393) constitute SINO subdivision industry series indices. Among them, the SINO Real Estate and SINO Non-ferrous reflect strong cyclical industries, while SINO Health Care and SINO Food reflect weak cyclical industries.   SINO subdivision industry series indices are featured with outstanding risk income, according to statistics. Since the base date till September 28 2012, SINO Health Care, SINO Non-ferrous, SINO Food and SINO Real Estate have made accumulated earnings of 360.52%, 415.33%, 602.01% and 240.91% respectively, while CNINFO A-share Index has made 181.16% at the same period; the beta coefficient for SINO Real Estate, SINO Non-ferrous, SINO Health Care and SINO Food is 1.216, 1.191, 0.886 and 0.855 respectively, which reflects the characteristic that strong cyclical industries have high beta coefficient while weak cyclical industries have low beta coefficient.   It is introduced that SINO subdivision industry series indices are developed by Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. catering for market demands. Relevant indexation investment products are under active preparation.   Regarding the details of the index, please refer to the official website of CNINFO Index (index.cninfo.com.cn).  

THE SHENZHEN STOCK EXCHANGE AND THE OPTIONS INDUSTRY COUNCIL SIGN MOU REGARDING OPTIONS RESEARCH AND EDUCATION IN CHINA
date:2012-10-24
CHICAGO, IL and SHENZHEN (October 23, 2012) – The Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) and The Options Industry Council (OIC) announced today they have signed a Memorandum of Understanding regarding joint options research and education. The ceremony was held with members of the OIC and SZSE in Shenzhen, China on Tuesday October 23, 2012.    As China focuses efforts on diversifying investment products, both OIC and SZSE recognize the need for investor education and research programs to contribute to the development and responsible use of suitable financial products. The MOU also addresses mutual cooperation and sharing of information about the U.S. and Chinese financial markets.   OIC has been the premier, independent source of equity options education in the U.S. for more than 20 years. Internationally, OIC works with partners throughout the Americas, Europe and Asia to provide options education.   “It is an honor to sign this MOU with the Shenzhen Stock Exchange,” said Gina McFadden, OIC President. “This lays the foundation of a mutually beneficial relationship between our organizations, which share a common interest in educating Chinese market participants about the benefits and risks of equity options.”   “China is an emerging market with a strong need for investor education. We are honored to work with OIC, a leading institution of options education and research in the industry, in a concerted effort to enhance the investor education practices in China’s capital market” said a representative of Shenzhen Stock Exchange.   About OIC OIC is an industry cooperative funded by BATS Options, BOX Options Exchange, Chicago Board Options Exchange, C2 Options Exchange, International Securities Exchange, NASDAQ OMX PHLX, NASDAQ Options Market, NYSE Amex Options, NYSE Arca Options and OCC. OIC was formed in 1992 to educate investors and their financial advisors about the benefits and risks of exchange-traded equity options.   About Shenzhen Stock Exchange Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) was established on 1st December, 1990. Shenzhen Stock Exchange has 1539 listed companies with a market capitalization of 1.2 trillion USD. Over the past 8 years, SZSE has admitted over 1,000 IPOs from the nation’s SME sector. SZSE has also made significant progress in fund, bond and asset-backed securities markets.   Media Contacts:   OIC                                                               Shenzhen Stock Exchange Jim Binder                                                   Fuzhong Liu                                  1 312-322-9853                                         Fax: +86-755-8208-4004           jbinder@theocc.com                                       international@szse.cn                

Stock Market Holiday Schedule (2012)
date:2012-9-28
1. New Year: 3-day holiday from January 1 (Sunday) to January 3 (Tuesday) for the stock market. The stock market will open as of January 4 (Wednesday). The stock market will close for December 31 (Saturday).   2. Spring Festival: 7-day holiday from January 22 (Sunday) to January 28 (Saturday) for the stock market. The stock market will open as of January 30 (Monday). The stock market will close for January 21 (Saturday) and January 29 (Sunday).   3. Qingming Festival: 3-day holiday from April 2 (Monday) to April 4 (Wednesday) for the stock market. The stock market will open as of April 5 (Thursday). The stock market will close for March 31(Saturday) and April 1 (Sunday).   4. Labour Day: 3-day holiday from April 29 (Sunday) to May 1 (Tuesday) for the stock market. The stock market will open as of May 2 (Wednesday). The stock market will close for April 28 (Saturday).   5. Dragon Boat Festival: 3-day holiday from June 22 (Friday) to June 24 (Sunday) for the stock market. The stock market will open as of June 25 (Monday).   6. Mid-Autumn Festival and National Day : 8-day holiday from September 30 (Sunday) to October 7 (Sunday) for the stock market. The stock market will open as of October 8 (Monday). The stock market will close for September 29 (Saturday).    

SZSE Industry Top Index Launched
date:2012-9-25
Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. announced that the SZSE Industry Top Index (Code: 399653, Abbreviation: SZSE Industry Top) was launched on September 25 2012, taking June 30 2010 as the base date and 1000 points as the base value.   Industry Top Enterprises refer to representative enterprises that grasp substantial market share and high profitability in the industry. Generally speaking, they are leading players in respect of scale, technology and corporate profitability, and have certain influence and demonstrative effect on industry peers. Thematic investment in industry top enterprises has been prevailing for years in domestic and overseas markets. Its significant advantages have been proven by practical experiences.   Referring to the 28 sub-sectors in the CNINFO Industry Classification, sampling of the SZSE Industry Top Index takes the four indicators of operating income, net profit, trading volume and floating market value into overall consideration, it sorts out top enterprises in respect of industry representativeness, profitability and secondary market liquidity. According to statistics, the SZSE Industry Top Index has made cumulative return of 11.40% since the base period till the first half of 2012, outperforming CNINFO A-share Index by 12.90% while the latter has made cumulative return of -1.50% during the corresponding period.   During the period of “Twelfth Five-Year Plan”, economic reform takes structural adjustment and industrial upgrade as the mainline; meanwhile the country is greatly supporting enterprises with comparative advantages to become the leading players in the industry. Industry top enterprises benefit best from such preferential policies.   Regarding the details of the index, please refer to the official website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and CNINFO Index (index.cninfo.com.cn).

SME-CHINEXT Hi-New Tech Launched Today
date:2012-9-17
Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. announced that the SME-CHINEXT High and New Technology Enterprises Index (Code: 399652, Abbreviation: SME-CHINEXT Hi-New Tech) was launched on September 17 2012, taking June 30 2011 as the base date and 1000 points as the base value.   High and New Technology Enterprises refer to those who focus on continuous research and development and transformation of technical achievements, forming core technologies with self-owned intellectual property rights and those who carry out operational activities based on it in the high-tech field which is highly supported by the country. High and new technology enterprises promote technical progress and development of science and technology in the country, meanwhile they enjoy a number of national encouragement policies. SZSE multi-layer capital market is the cradle for the growth of high-new tech enterprises. As of the end of July, there are 512 and 319 high-new tech enterprises listed on the SME board and ChiNext board respectively, accounting for 74% and 92% respectively.   The indexing scheme shows that the SME-CHINEXT High and New Technology Enterprises Index takes the national promulgated Management Measures for Recognition of High and New Technology Enterprises as reference, it sorts out stocks of enterprises who are recognized as National High-New Tech Enterprises, and selects the top 50 stocks as sample according to the ranking of average R&D expense ratio (ratio of R&D expense to operation revenue) in the past three years.   The SME-CHINEXT High and New Technology Enterprises Index takes R&D expense ratio as indicator, it effectively fits with the advanced idea of “science and technology are the primary productive forces”, demonstrates the market characteristics of SME board and ChiNext board, and provides more diversified investment products for the market’s thematic investment.   Regarding the details of the index, please refer to the official website of Shenzhen Stock Exchange (www.szse.cn) and CNINFO Index (index.cninfo.com.cn).  

Three Thematic Indices: SZSE SME Dividend Index and the other Two Indices are Launched Today
date:2012-8-20
In order to guide the listed companies to positively reward their shareholders, improve corporation management, exercise the social responsibility, Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. jointly declared on August 20, 2012 to launch SZSE SME Dividend Index (Code: 399649, Abbreviation: SME Dividend), SZSE SME CORP Governance Index (Code: 399650, Abbreviation: SME CORP Governance) and SZSE SME CSR Index (Code: 399651, Abbreviation: SME CSR). All of three indices take June 30, 2009 as the base date, and 1000 points as base point.   The aforesaid indices select sample stocks from companies listed in SME board. Comprehensively taking factors of profit distribution rates, market proportion of dividend in to account, SZSE SME Dividend Index selects 50 companies that have stable profit distribution history for sample stocks; SZSE SME CORP Governance Index selects 50 companies, which are well managed and have high management appraisal records according to the CNINFO comprehensive evaluation system of listed companies governance structure; SZSE SME CSR Index takes the factors of the total contribution made by the listed company to the country, employees, shareholders and creditors and thereof proportion to the company’s net asset in to account, and selects 50 companies to form the sample. All three indices set 10% as upper weights for specific stock to avoid the overweight of specific stock.   As the statistics shows, three thematic indices: SZSE SME Dividend Index, SZSE SME CORP Governance Index and SZSE SME CSR Index have prominent performances in the history record: from thereof base day to June 30, 2012, the excessive gain for three indices is 23%, 29%, 9% respectively comparing to CNINFO A-share Index, and 27%, 28%, 5% respectively comparing to SZSE Dividend, SZSE CORP Governance, SZSE CSR, presenting the exemplary growth of companies listed on SME board. The three aforesaid said indices are endowed with features of large market value capacity, ample liquidity, active transaction, and are thus suitable for developing into fund products.   The launch of SME Dividend, SME CORP Governance and SME CSR positively responds to the requirement and calls of China Securities Regulatory Commission and Shenzhen Stock Exchange regarding the profit distribution, corporation management and social responsibility of listed companies, and is thus conductive to guiding the benign operation of listed companies, boosting the healthy development of SME Board Market, enriching the investment targets of SME board thematic indices, and meeting the vigorous investment demand of SME market.  

SINO Real Estate Index is Launched Today
date:2012-8-20
Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. declared on August 20, 2012 to launch SINO Real Estate Index, which is designed to reflect the return of real estate stocks, providing investment targets in industry segments, propelling the development of index fund products. SINO Real Estate Index (Code: 399393, Abbreviation: SINO Real Estate) takes December 31, 2004 as base day, and 1000 points as base point.   Sample space of SINO Real Estate Index is formed by A-share stocks, whose primary industry are financial real estate or secondary industry are real estate in light of CNINFO Industry Classification Standard, from Shanghai and Shenzhen markets. With average current market capitalization and market proportion of thereof average trading volume weighted in the light of 2:1, the stocks from the sample space are ranked; the top 50 stocks will be selected as sample stocks for the index. 15% upper weight is set for specific stock in order to avoid the phenomenon of specific sample stock being overweighed.   SINO Real Estate Index presents the features of high-yield and high beta: from thereof base day to June 29, 2012, the cumulative gain for SINO Real Estate Index reaches 290.01%, with the gain for CNINFO A-share Index of the same period being 200.74%. As the statistics shows, the beta coefficient of SINO Real Estate Index is 1.083, representing feature of strong cyclical stocks and high beta. SINO Real Estate Index is suitable for the investment instrument of band operation.   Sector index is more precise segmental investment instrument that facilitates the investors to seize the gain of specific industry or sector. In the viewpoint of overseas mature market experience, sector index fund products are very significant component of the stock investment market, with its scale only second to that of broad-based market index. In A-share market, since the major broad-based market index has substantial realized productization, sector index fund will become the next investment hot spot. Currently, the market demand for sector index and segment industry index has increased significantly.   It is reported that SINO Real Estate Index is developed by Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd., upon the needs of Guotai Asset Management Co., Ltd., which is actively developing SINO Real Estate Index Classified fund products.  

SZSE GDP 100 Index Issued, Steering the Structural Industries Investment
date:2012-8-8
Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. jointly declared on August 8, 2012 to issue SZSE GDP 100 Index, which is designed to reflect the features of national economic structure variation and sector rotation, to highlight the high-growth industries that lead the economic growth, and to present indexation investment targets that of industry configuration features. SZSE GDP 100 Index (Code: 399648, Abbreviation: SZSE GDP) takes June 30, 2005 as base day, and 1000 points as base point.   It is reported that SZSE GDP 100 Index, in the light of GDP industry growth quarter data, selects high-growth industries that lead the economic growth, ranks the aforesaid selected industries in accordance with their operating income, and selects 100 companies listed in Shenzhen market from the aforesaid industries to compose the sample. With its designing theory consistent with the “top down” philosophy of investment strategy, the index renders a new tool for investors to seize the structural investment opportunities.   As the statistics shows, the index makes a protruding performance in the history record: from June 30, 2005 to June 30, 2012, the cumulative gain for the index reaches 359%, with the exceeding gain, comparing to SZSE 100 Index, being 94%, and the exceeding gain, comparing to CSI 300 Index, being 179%. Combining with the annual volatility rate index of the same period, this index is endowed with balanced risk-benefit feature, with risk-adjusted return higher than that of SZSE 100 and CSI 300.   SZSE 100 Index is jointly compiled by Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd., State Information Centre China Economic Information Network, Shanghai Vector Gestalt Data Service Co., Ltd..    

Two Thematic Indices: SZSE Consumer 50 and SZSE Health Care 50 are Issued by SZSE Today
date:2012-8-6
Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. jointly declared on August 6, 2012 to issue two thematic indices: SZSE Consumer 50 Index (Code: 399646, Abbreviation: SZSE Consumer 50) and SZSE Health Care 50 Index (Code: 399647, Abbreviation: SZSE Health Care 50). Both indices take December 31, 2004 as the base date, and 1000 points as base point.   According to the complication plan, the sampling scope for Consumer Thematic Index includes the listing companies in consumer discretionary industry and consumer staples industry; the sampling scope for Health Care thematic Index includes listing companies in medicine and health care industry and drug retail sub-industry. 50 A-share listing companies with strong representativeness and good liquidity are chosen respectively from related thematic markets for the sample stocks of SZSE Consumer 50 Index and SZSE Health Care 50 Index. In the process of calculation, the weight of every single sample stock will not exceed 10%。. The sample stocks for the indices will be adjusted in January and July every year.   As the data indicates, the two thematic indices have outstanding performance throughout the history. From the base day to the end of this June, the accumulated gain of SZSE Consumer 50 Index is 334%, and that of SZSE Health Care 50 Index is 400%, remarkably higher than that of SZSE Composite Index--being 192%.   Thematic index is further extension for the concept of thematic investment, facilitating the thematic investment with better operability and lower investment cost. The issue of SZSE Consumer 50 Index and SZSE Health Care 50 Index will be conductive to reflecting the overall performance of listed companies of different themes in Shenzhen Market, and thus will provide ampler choose for the index investment.  

SZSE Launches New Service Hotline
date:2012-7-26
In order to further improve the service quality, and facilitate the market participants, Shenzhen Stock Exchange officially launches national unified service hotline number—400-808-9999 today. Being an important window for the SZSE to serve the market, “service hotline”, ever since 2008, has received more than 50 thousand investor calls, which have been answered by SZSE with patient and detail explanation. Launching this service hotline is an important measure of SZSE to interact with different market participants and elevate its core competitiveness advantages. The change of number and upgrading of service hotline will not only expand the function of SZSE service hotline, but also improve the efficiency of SZSE’s market service, thus better provide a full range of services for the investors and market participants.   The choice of 400-808-9999 as national unified service hotline is based on its memorability and low calling charge for the callers. The new number also applies to SZSE Investor Call Center, Voice Enquiry System. SZSE service hotline also has the permission for value-added services, the related functions of which will be further developed and amplified in the future, and will consequently undertake more calling works regarding investor relationship, market investigation, important announcement, etc.   SZSE have always highly valued the service work, which has been placed as the essential foundation for the Exchange. In recent years, in the market oriented philosophy, and in light of the requirement of Outline of Construction of Service System issued by SZSE, SZSE established “Investor’s Comprehensive Access Platform”, which centers on the smooth operation of multi-layer capital market, reinforces the construction of system for investor education service, and strengthens SZSE’s serving methods and means. With investor hotline as basis, “Investor’s Comprehensive Access Platform”, covers a variety of means communication, including phone call, email, letters, text messages, online communication, on-site exchange, complaint and report electronic system, special investigation, etc., in order to facilitate the investors to seek help and appeal with conveniences.

To Reinforce the Awareness of Risk Prevention, to Participate in New Share Trading with Caution
date:2012-7-5
Since the issue of a new round of reformative measures on the IPO system, the market witness some new changes, with the phenomenon of speculation on the first day changed somewhat, and the newly issued shares seen both rise and fall on the first trading day. Among the 25 newly issued shares since May 25, 14 stocks rose while the other 11 fell on the first trading day, with an average rise of 9.45%, lower than that of before. However, a recent newly issued stock ---Yilida triggered temporary trading suspension three times on its first trading days, rising 43.94% on that day. Its rising trend continued on the second day, and hit the daily limit on price increases. It is reported that the major drive for the rise of Yilida was small-medium investors, whose awareness of risk prevention shall be further reinforced. Investors shall pay close attention to Yilida’s risk reminder announcement issued on July 5. The announcement specially mentioned that the PE for its stock price has excelled the industrial PE, which is 35.86%, thus it has the risk of being over-evaluated.   Statistics from SZSE shows that individual investors purchased 99.18% of Yilida’s share on the first trading day, among them, small-medium investors who purchased less than 50000 share account for 87.26%. However fund and other professional institution investors did not participate in the first day trading; the trading structure for the second trading day is similar to that of the first trading day, with the individual investors still dominant the investors, and purchasing 99% of the shares. Among them small-medium investors who purchased less than 50000 shares account for 85.28%.   The empirical data from the SZSE Financial Innovation Laboratory shows, more than half of the small-medium investors who participate in the first trading day of newly issued share suffer losses. The higher the new shares go on the first trading day, the heavier lost the individual suffer. In the cases of 88 new shares issued in the first half year in Shenzhen Market, small-medium investors who purchase less than 50000 shares on the first trading day accounts for 52.07% of the loss account, and their loss take up 86.47% of the total individual investors loss; in the cases of the new shares rose more than 50% on the first trading day, small-medium investors who purchased less than 50000 share on the first trading day accounts for 58.62% loss account, and their loss take up 91.65% of the total individual investors loss. Since May, the overall loss of small-medium investors who participated in the first trading day of newly issued share decreases, but still in the cases such as Haida, Dewei Advanced Materials, Fujian Jinsen, etc, the loss is still very severe with 100% of their individual investor suffer loss.    

2011 appraisal for information disclosure of listed companies in SZSE present overall good result, the pilot scope for information disclosure through system expand
date:2012-7-3
Shenzhen Stock Exchange has completed the appraisal on the information disclosure of the companies listed on main board, SME board and ChiNext board for 2011 in recent days. According to the appraisal results, the listed companies performed well in terms of information disclosure. The proportion of companies with Grade A appraisal results in every board increases. In the light of the information disclosure appraisal result, SZSE will adjust to the pilot scope for the information disclosure through system.   484 companies listed on the main board participated in the appraisal. Among them, Shenzhen Development A and other 55 companies were appraised as Grade A, accounting 11.57% of the total number; Cau Technology and other 323 companies were appraised as Grade B, accounting 66.94% of the total number; Zero-seven and other 87 companies were appraised as Grade C, accounting 18.18% of the total number; Shenzhen Fountain and other 15 companies were appraised as Grade D, accounting 3.31 % of the total number.   646 companies listed on the SME board participated in the appraisal. Among them, Zhejiang NHU and other 130 companies were appraised as Grade A, accounting 20.28% of the total number; Huapont Pharm. and other 455 companies were appraised as Grade B, accounting 70.59% of the total number; Hedy Holding and other 51 companies were appraised as Grade C, accounting 8.05% of the total number; Extra ST Guanfu and other 6 companies were appraised as Grade D, accounting 1.08% of the total number.   281 companies listed on the ChiNext board participated in the appraisal. Among them, Lepu Medical and other 45 companies were appraised as Grade A, accounting 16.37% of the total number; Tgood and other 204 companies were appraised as Grade B, accounting 72.95% of the total number; Bode Energy Equipment and other 28 companies were appraised as Grade C, accounting 10.32% of the total number; Zhendong Pharmaceutical was appraised as Grade D, accounting 0.36% of the total number.   According to the relevant responsible person of Shenzhen Stock Exchange, this is the first appraisal after the implementation of the new Appraisal Measures. On the basis of dynamic appraisal on the timeliness, correctness, completeness and compliance of the routine information disclosure, Appraisal Measures on Information Disclosure of Public Companies revised by SZSE in 2011 establishes quantitative comprehensive appraisal indicators system in the fields of information disclosure, standardized operation, supervision measures and penalty on violation of regulation, increases the link of listed company self-evaluation, further improves the objectivity of appraisal standard, and openness of appraisal process, fairness of appraisal result and the scientific appraisal measure, and thus gives a better play of the positive guiding of information disclosure appraisal to listed companies’ regulatory operation.   As SZSE’s appraisal results for information disclosure showed, listed companies with Grade A appraisal results, for example, China Merchants Property, Hikvision, Lepu Medical, etc. operate in a standardized way, disclose information in high quality, and play exampling roles in the market. However, there are also a few companies, for example, Extra ST Chalkis, Rainbow Fine Chemical Industry, etc, appraised as D grade for the reasons of violation of information disclosure regulation, failure in disclosing the major events in timely manners, and major accounting errors, etc.   It is also reported that on November 24, 2011, SZSE piloted information disclosure through system on 155 companies, which had been appraised as excellent in terms of information disclosure in 2010. The implementation of information disclosure through system enhanced the disclosure efficiency and quality of pilot companies significantly.  SZSE will further establish information disclosure through system’s mechanism of rewarding excellence and punishing inferior in the light of the 2011 information disclosure appraisal results, and adjust to the scopes for the pilot companies. According to the Grade A company through disclosure principle, the Main board will remove 10 companies and take in 12 companies for pilot; the SME board will remove 17 companies and take in 67 companies for pilot; the ChiNext will remove 6 companies and take in 32 companies for pilot. After the adjustment, the pilot companies for information disclosure through system will increase to 233.   What is more, SZSE will try to find out solutions to the problem found in the appraisal, and improve the listing rules; to deal with the the listed companies and related persons involved in the event of violation of the fair disclosure principle, releasing the insider information, insider transactions, SZSE will carry out various actions including dunning the related parties to improve the relevant systems, and enhancing the supervision and striking on the non-compliance, in order to practically maintain the market order.   

Analysis Released on Features of New Share Offering and Trading
date:2012-6-25
SZSE has recently released results of a study on characteristics of new share offering and trading since late April, 2012.   China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) issued Guidelines for Further Deepening IPO Reform on 28th April, 2012. The guideline raised allotment for institutional investors in off-line offering and removed the three-month lock-up requirement. A t same time it requires increases in supply of free-float shares during offering. According to the guideline, issuers shall further disclose risk factors when the price-earning ratio at issuance is 25% higher than industrial average. Furthermore, the guideline requires that the exchange strengthen supervision over first-day trading in such new shares and improve information disclosure on their trading features. From commencement of the reform until 8th June, 2012, 18 companies have completed IPOs and 12 of them have listed shares on SZSE. By comparing data with the 48 newly-listed stocks from 1st February through 27th April, SZSE has made analysis into post-reform IPO stocks and reached the following observations:   First, institutional investors play an increasingly prominent role in pricing of new shares through active off-line subscription. The 18 post-reform IPO stocks received 118 bids on average in off-line allotment, 69% higher than an average of 70 bids before the reform. The average size of subscription increased to 6.5 million shares, representing a 72% rise over an average of 3.78 million shares before the reform.   Second， IPO pricing has become more rational, easing the situation of high issuing price-earning ratio, high offering prices and excessive proceeds. The average issuing price-earning ratio of the 18 post-reform IPO stocks stands at 30.61 times, only 4.23% higher than the industrial average and considerably lower than the pre-reform level of 22.56% above industrial average. An average of RMB 134 million yuan (USD 21.3) was raised in excess of the target proceeds, 38% lower than the RMB 217 million yuan (USD 34.4) before the reform.   Third, volatility on first day of trading was significantly reduced, indicating further improvement in the pricing mechanism. With cancelation of three-month lock-up requirement and increasing supply of free-float shares, the market provides conditions for adequate participation on both buy and sell sides for price discovery. The reform has demonstrated effectiveness in curbing first-day speculation and leading the way toward more rational pricing of new shares. The average price increases at opening and closing for the 12 newly-listed stocks is 7.48% and 7.62% respectively, while the pre-reform levels were 26.03% and 24.15%. Before the reform, only 7 of the 48 IPO stocks fell below the offering price at the close of first trading day. By contrast, six out the 12 issuers after the reform saw their stocks underperform their offering prices, highlighting risk in new shares subscription.   Fourth, the percentage of Institutional investors’ trade in newly-listed shares increased slightly. For each of the 12 post-reform IPO stocks, an average of 52.41% of shares purchased through off-line offering were sold on first trading day. And on average 10.67% were sold within the following 10 trading days, amounting to a total of 63.08% of total off-line subscription in each stock. By the same token, Institutional investors bought in 1.58% of all new shares in each of the 12 IPO stocks on the first trading day, higher than the prior level of 1.08%. And they bought in 2.32% in subsequent 10 trading days, slightly higher than the prior level of 1.85%.   Statistics indicates improvement in pricing mechanism on the first day of trading, gradual return to inherent value of stocks and easing of speculation on IPO stocks. An initial milestone of success has been achieved with improved coordination and harmonization of primary and secondary markets.

SZSE Rallies Efforts to Enhance Investor Protection
date:2012-6-20
SZSE has recently co-organized three training sessions on investor protection for over 760 brokerage representatives with member securities firms in Yinchuan, Jinnan and Chengdu in collaboration with respective provincial branch offices of CSRC. The training sessions were themed Transparency, Rationality and Suitability with a focus on enhancement of investor protection and investor suitability programme for the multi-tiered market system.   Ms. Song Liping, President and CEO of SZSZ, emphasized the importance of Investor Suitability Programme in her speech at the Yinchuan training session on June 15th. Since the Investor Suitability Management Programme was fully implemented in the ChiNext Market, CSRC has placed investor suitability requirements on margin trading and stock index futures, making it a basic institutional arrangement for Chinese capital market. The Investor Suitability Programme is aimed at providing fundamental protection for investors. At the moment, the Investor Suitability Program is closely linked to sound development in critical reforms in IPO rules, delisting of public Issuers and private placement of SME bonds. President Song called for a sense of urgency in market participants to enhance understanding of the Investor Suitability Programme’s fundamental role in maintaining stability in the capital market, promoting financial innovations, and improving the capital market services for weaker sectors of the real economy including SMEs and micro-businesses.   At the training sessions, SZSE reiterated requirements for member securities firms to deepen the Investor Suitability Programme. The capital market faces fresh opportunities as unveiled by the recent Financial Innovation Conference. Securities firms are encouraged to implement the spirit of the Conference by accelerating product, business and mechanism innovations, providing differentiated services for investors of different asset sizes and risk-bearing capacity and facilitating sound transformation from savings into investment. On the other hand, securities firms should also strike a balance between the innovation, compliance management and risk control and incorporate Investor Suitability Programme in the entire business process from product development, sales to transaction. First, securities firms should improve client classification management and strengthen targeted self-regulatory management over different types of clients. Second, securities firms should expand product lines in response to diversified investor demands; Third, securities firms should constantly improve the effectiveness and relevance of risk disclosures.   Recently the Supreme Court and the Supreme People's Procuratorate of China issued Judicial Interpretation of Insider Trading. At the training sessions SZSE accentuated the danger of insider trading in violating the basic principles of the securities market, breaking market order, infringing on investors’ rights to know and asset interests and eroding the foundation of public markets. Securities firms are called upon to enhance compliance management, strengthen insider information registration practices and information firewalls, enhance insider information supervision and professional ethics, prevent conflicts of interests and insider trading and fulfill their fiduciary obligations to investors.   SZSE also emphasized the urgency to cultivate a “stock ownership” culture and promote value investment mentality among retail investors. Statistics show that retail investors lack consciousness of demanding investment returns through dividends. First, retail investors tend to hold low-dividend-yield shares. Institutional investors hold over 80% of stocks with dividend yield above 2% while retail investors hold only 20% of such stocks. Institutional investors hold 40% of shares with dividend yield below 0.5% while retail investors hold 60%. Second, retail investors receive apparently much smaller divided earnings than their institutional counterparts. For the same amount market-cap value, retail investors receive markedly smaller dividend than institutional investors. Take 2009 for an instance. Though retail investors’ holdings accounted for 36% of the total market capitalization, they only received 29% of the total dividend returns. At the training sessions, SZSE called for joint efforts of securities firms to avidly promote the philosophy of value investment and long-term investment in retail investors and to establish a sound equities investment culture in the capital market.   So far, SZSE has co-organized a series of similar training sessions in collaboration with eight CSRC local branch offices. SZSE also held ChiNext Listed Companies’ Open Day Programme, where investors were invited to take site visits and have face-to-face conversations with corporate executives. While investors had the opportunity to have first-hand understanding of listed companies’ business models and risk profiles, the latter could also gain a better understanding of their investors and public demand of information disclosure. These activities are designed to improve market transparency and solidify foundation for the market’s self-regulation.    

